'Work It': Bullying GLAAD Goes On Another Censorship Rampage



GLAAD is a cancer on all things free speech. They make the backers of the old Production Code   and those anti-Communist Blacklisters look like look like Marxist libertines.


The ABC comedy “Work It” doesn’t even premiere until Jan, 3, and already it’s invoking ire from rights groups.

The series has sparked anger from the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation and the Human Rights Campaign, who argue that the series could prove harmful to transgendered individuals.

The series stars Ben Koldyke (“How I Met Your Mother”) and Amaury Nolasco (“Prison Break”) as two friends and former coworkers who, unemployed and desperate, take to cross-dressing in order to get hired by a pharmaceutical company that’s looking for female sales reps.

The concept spurred an angry message from GLAAD, which argued that, while the show “does not explicitly address transgender people, many home viewers unfamiliar with the realities of being transgender will still make the connection. ‘Work It’ invites the audience to laugh at images of men trying to adopt a feminine appearance, thereby also making it easier to mock people whose gender identity and expression are different than the one they were assigned at birth.”

GLAAD took particular offense to a print ad for the series, in which the two main characters stand side-by-side at a pair of urinals, while dressed as women.

“Not only does it inadvertently further notions that transgender identities are humorous or artificial, but imagery like this are one of the first things anti-LGBT activists resort to when trying to deny transgender people protections against discrimination,” GLAAD argues.

Oh shut up, you fascist, un-American crybabies.

Because GLAAD believes that anyone who falls under an LGB or T should somehow be immune  from satire, these bullies attempt to make the absurd claim that obvious humor will turn into bigotry.



When this squeak qualifies as  pushback,  all is lost.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

