Alleged ‘Senior Prank’ Lands Five Texas Teens in Jail on Felony Charges

An alleged “senior prank” between cross-town North Texas high school rivals ended with five teenagers in jail. The students face felony charges for vandalism and defacing school property with vulgar graffiti.

According to the arrest affidavits, “trans only” was spray painted on a men’s bathroom door and “whites only” above an outside water fountain. The likeness of male genitalia was also spray painted on the campus, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported.

The students were identified as Christian Joeckel, Ryan Westbrook, Hayden Honolka, Cameron Bodenstab, and Ethan Sigmund. Bodenstab and Sigmund are 18-years-old while the other three teenagers are 17-years-old. They attend Arlington High, a rival school.

Each student faces a felony graffiti charge. Under Texas Penal Code, Title 7, Chapter 28, graffiti is a serious type of criminal mischief and is classified as a state jail felony when it takes place at a school, house of worship, cemetery, public monument, or community center property.

As a felony, a graffiti charge carries stiff penalties — 180 days to two years in a state jail and/or a fine of not more than $10,000, according to the state’s penal code punishments in Chapter 12.35. The Texas juvenile justice system defines a child as someone who is 10 years or older and under 17, which means the high school students will all be treated as adults.

Earlier this week, Lt. Cook told reporters: “This was such a large scale of graffiti we would have jumped on this regardless. Anytime you have hateful messages, that’s real concerning and we’re going to look at that. We want to know who did this and what is their motivation?””

While the police called the graffiti criminal and disturbing, the teens said it was a senior prank and may have even been part of a rivalry. One of the graffiti phrases was: “This is payback for the parking lot.” It is not known to what this refers.

In 2016, this is happening. We hope that @ArlingtonISD investigates & enforces policies soon. @NAACP @CornellWBrooks pic.twitter.com/FSxjvhU4ht

— Arlington, TX NAACP (@ArlingtonNAACP) May 25, 2016

The Arlington Independent School District said they worked with local police to identify the suspects in the graffiti investigation. On Friday, they tweeted the district does not tolerate vandalism and hate speech. “Students involved in the graffiti incident will receive appropriate disciplinary action.”

The AISD does not tolerate vandalism & hate speech. Students involved in the graffiti incident will receive appropriate disciplinary action.

— Arlington ISD (@ArlingtonISD) May 27, 2016

Follow Merrill Hope, a member of the original Breitbart Texas team, on Twitter @OutOfTheBoxMom.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

