Alyssa Milano Apologizes After Calling Herself a Disabled, Trans, Immigrant, Person of Color

Left-wing celebrity activist Alyssa Milano apologized over the weekend for causing offense after calling herself a disabled, transgender person of color in a social media post.

“My transgender sisters! I am celebrating YOU this NationalWomensDay!” the Sundays at Tiffany’s actress said.

My transgender sisters! I am celebrating YOU this #NationalWomensDay!

— Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) March 8, 2019

“Don’t be afraid of what you don’t know or understand. No one wants to hurt you. We are all just looking for our happily ever after.”

https://twitter.com/Alyssa_Milano/status/1104181833124610050

Many of her followers knocked Milano for this, accusing her of inappropriately using marginalized identities that do not apply to her, a well-heeled white woman.

Others just poked fun at her. Conservative commentator Michelle Malkin put it simply, “You’re delusional.”

You're delusional. https://t.co/oKDifcGAZb

— Michelle Malkin (@michellemalkin) March 9, 2019

Milano, of course, apologized, saying, “I’m glad this tweet invoked conversation. I’m so sorry it offended some.”

“I see you and hear you. But just a reminder, empathy is not a bad thing. Nuance is important and literal interpretation is not always intended. And I can identify with and not identify as. Both are powerful.”

I’m glad this tweet invoked conversation. I’m so sorry it offended some. I see you and hear you. But just a reminder, empathy is not a bad thing. Nuance is important and literal interpretation is not always intended. And I can identify with and not identify as. Both are powerful.

— Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) March 9, 2019

The 46-year-old is a strong supporter of social justice causes, and often attacks others for their missteps on such issues.

“Let me be clear: I’m not saying everyone who voted for Trump is a racist. I’m saying that everyone who proudly wears the red hat identifies with an ideology of white supremacy and misogyny,” the Charmed actress said. “Everyone who proudly wears those hats gives a tacit endorsement for the hatred and the violence we’ve seen these past few years.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

