Backlash Forces Company to Take Down ‘Transphobic’ Bruce Jenner Billboard

Following a backlash from New Zealand’s transgender community, an Auckland-based company has taken down a Christmas-themed Bruce Jenner billboard.

Company slammed over Christmas billboard making light of Caitlyn Jenner's transition https://t.co/zIDGrcPMyC pic.twitter.com/YqfICBc6RB

— Daily Mail Australia (@DailyMailAU) December 3, 2015

The image was taken from Jenner’s June Vanity Fair photoshoot and photoshopped to include the Santa hat.

The billboard angered members of New Zealand’s transgender community who said it was “transphobic” and risked marginalizing the transgendered.

After hearing the complaints, Cranium director Phillip Garratt agreed to remove the sign and offered a $1,000 donation to the LGBT group Rainbow Youth.

Garratt issued the following apology on the company’s Facebook page on Wednesday:

I as the owner have no feelings of discrimination to the Gay or transgender community and if one of my family was I would love them just the same. Cait is more then [sic] welcome to stay at my house with my family anytime. I will have a wine or a beer with her quite happily and it would be an honour.

Despite an apology, a donation, and the removal of the sign, some of Garratt’s critics feel he has not done enough to amend the situation.

“I want an apology to my 9-year-old son AND a donation, and the transgender community is behind me on this,” Jones said.

Jones said that Garratt was “quite insulting” in an email exchange he had with one of Jones’ friends who emailed him to complain about the billboard.

“I think you may need to take a look at yourself and relax a bit and not take life so seriously. I was referring to a Santa sack, your sick mind is the problem,” Garratt reportedly wrote back to Jones’ friend.

While some are still seeking additional reparations for the billboard, Rainbow Youth, the organization which received Garratt’s $1,000 donation, said he has learned his lesson.

“Jokes shouldn’t target transgender people who are already marginalized and over-represented in negative health statistics,” Duder added.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

