Bill Burr Jokes about Bruce Jenner’s Gender Transition; Twitter Flips Out

Comedian Bill Burr is facing some online backlash after joking on Conan about Bruce Jenner’s transition to Caitlyn Jenner.

“I’m not saying that in any bad way,” Burr said, seemingly knowing he would be in for online trouble later. “I’m just saying.”

“I miss that guy. I miss him already,” Burr joked. “He should have told us. He should have given us a chance to say goodbye. I watched him on the Olympics. I watched him on CHiPS. I watched him on that horrible show my wife watches where he just walks around in the background. Nobody listened to him; it’s just sad.”

Then you couldn’t react. You couldn’t on any level be like, “Oh my g-d, what the eff,” on any level. You couldn’t say that or you’re automatically homophobic. If you shave your beard off, people are like, “Oh, that’s your chin, wow!” This guy walked out a dude, came back a woman, and you’re just supposed to be like, “Oh, yes, so anyways, Caitlyn.”

“God bless him. God bless her, sorry. They really freak out about the pronouns,” Burr said, not letting up. “Say, ‘God bless him,’ and they’re like, ‘Her!’ Sorry.”

Conan then read off a promo for Burr’s stand-up comedy tour while trying to stifle a laugh.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, Burr’s comments caused a good deal of negative reaction on Twitter and in left-leaning media:

https://twitter.com/nickmullen/status/634819322083454976

Bill Burr's comments on Caitlyn Jenner went too far http://t.co/7wwLpeWx7m

— huffpostqueer (@huffpostqueer) August 21, 2015

Bill Burr didn't take the time to UNDERSTAND & learn about the trans community so how could he be expected to make informed opinions on it?

— Jill Gutowitz (@jillboard) August 21, 2015

Others defended the often-controversial comedian:

@billburr Just saw what you said on @ConanOBrien.Utter nonsense that people want you to apologise. You said what most people are thinking.

— John Murphy (@realjohnmurphy) August 21, 2015

If someone can provide me with an INTELLIGENT reason that anything @billburr said was actually offensive, im all ears. until then SHUT IT

— Mark Stevens (@MarkTheShark927) August 21, 2015

Bill Burr, is the best. In the world. I cannot describe.

— Luke 'Wengles' James (@Wengles) August 21, 2015

Neither Burr nor Conan’s team has commented yet.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

