Breaking: GOP Delegates Given New Poll Showing Americans Oppose Transgender Push

CLEVELAND—As Republican Convention delegates gather in Cleveland this week to revise and propose the Republican Party Platform to the full party convention next week, a new poll was just circulated this afternoon to them showing that by more than a two-to-one margin Americans oppose the newest LGBT push regarding forcing businesses and schools to adopt transgender policies.

During the morning session, several conservative delegates, led by Tony Perkins from Louisiana, the president of the Family Research Council (FRC), sparred in a cordial manner in one subcommittee with Anne Dickerson from New York, whom activists in the room said was representing the views of Paul Singer, the billionaire hedge fund manager who has been pushing LGBT issues among Republicans.

Conservatives then got an unexpected boost during lunch, when the FRC received the results of a new poll, and started sharing it among the delegates before the afternoon session of the full Platform Committee.

The nationwide poll asked, “Do you approve or disapprove of government forcing schools, businesses, and non-profit organizations to open the showers, changing facilities, locker rooms, and bathrooms designed for women and girls, to biological males, and vice versa?

The results were lopsided. Only 28 percent approved of the new push to redefine “sex” to include “gender identity” and transgenderism, while 66 percent—more than double that number—disapproved.

So the majority appears to be with conservatives on this issue, as those who strongly disapprove of opening private areas to the opposite biological sex outnumber those that support the Obama administration’s new sexual priorities by almost a four-to-one margin.

The poll of 1,012 adults nationwide was conducted by WPA Opinion Research. It was conducted by a live telephone operator July 7-10, and has a margin of error of 3.1 percent.

It should also be noted that registered voters usually tend to poll slightly more conservative and more Republican than all adults. Among registered voters, likely voters tend to be slightly more conservative and Republican than all registered voters.

“After nearly eight years of federal overreach, we are seeing the American people stand up to Barack Obama’s effort to fundamentally transform America,” Perkins exclusively told Breitbart News in reaction to today’s poll.

“President Obama pushed aside the concerns of parents and schools, the privacy and safety of students, and ignored the boundaries of his constitutional power,” Perkins added. “If the White House can dictate the policies for every school locker room, shower, and bathroom in America, what could possibly be beyond its reach?”

Ken Klukowski is senior legal editor for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @kenklukowski.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

