Brianna Wu Chatted To ‘Terrorist Troll’ Joshua Goldberg After He Outed Her As Transgender

A “terrorist troll” arrested today by the FBI, with whom I once had fleeting but unproductive contact, posed as a feminist with a parody identity called Tanya Cohen with which he posted a column at feminist blog Feministing.com that outed game developer Brianna Wu as transgender.

But, even worse, they purposefully omitted to mention that Brianna Wu herself was a victim of the same troll, even going so far as to follow him on Twitter and ask him to DM her. In other words, Wu had private communication with a man arrested by the FBI today for terrorism. She then tried to use him to attack her opponents.



For the people asking: My communication with that person was to tell them their work was not up to professional standards of sourcing.

— Brianna Wu (@BriannaWu) September 12, 2015

To be clear: I privately contacted a writer to tell them their sourcing was unacceptable, and to hold themselves to higher standards.

— Brianna Wu (@BriannaWu) September 12, 2015

If anything, this speaks to my professional credit. I saw someone writing something that was unethical – stepped in to privately correct it.

— Brianna Wu (@BriannaWu) September 12, 2015

Progressive campaigners today wrongly accused Breitbart of giving a platform to a terrorist troll. It was in fact they who did – and one of their own got burned as a result.

A moderator on GamerGhazi, a ferociously pro-feminist subreddit, noted that the Feministing.com post “violat[ed] rules on outing.”



Brianna Wu has been known to be trangender for some time, but has not acknowledged her past herself. Her outing at the hands of an apparent ally – a feminist blog – will be acutely embarrassing for the blog, in particular its executive director Jos Truitt. Truitt did not respond to a request for comment.

Joshua Goldberg legitimized one sockpuppet (@xTanyaCohenx) by making it argue with another sockpuppet (@MoonMetropolis). #theplotthickens

— Jim Treacher (@jtLOL) September 12, 2015

Joshua Goldberg had Twitter arguments with himself. For that alone, he should get a life sentence. https://t.co/n4FsVBgFVd

— Jim Treacher (@jtLOL) September 12, 2015

It's absolutely good that Joshua Goldberg will spend time behind bars. Keep an eye out for anyone who uses him to demonize their opponents.

— Ian Miles Cheong (@stillgray) September 12, 2015

Follow Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) on Twitter and Facebook. He’s a hoot! Android users can download Milo Alert! to be notified about new articles when they are published.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

