Bruce Jenner Named New Face of MAC Cosmetics

Gaga, Rihanna, Ariana… Bruce.

According to Page Six, Jenner inked a deal with MAC that is rumored to be worth at least seven figures and gives him his own signature lipstick. The deal will also assist the Estée Lauder-owned company in becoming more involved with the transgender community, as all profits from Jenner’s “Finally Free” lipstick will benefit the M•A•C AIDS Fund Transgender Initiative, per the company’s website.



 I'm finally free to announce my partnership with @MACcosmetics! All sales of our lipstick shade, Finally Free, go toward improving transgender communities. Look for it in April! #MACCaitlynJenner (Link in bio)

A post shared by  Caitlyn Jenner (@caitlynjenner) on Feb 26, 2016 at 1:00pm PST

“I’m finally free to announce my partnership with @MACcosmetics,” wrote Jenner. “All sales of our lipstick shade, Finally Free, go toward improving transgender communities.”

The company shared additional details of the partnership on its website:

Today, M•A•C is proud to announce a partnership with Caitlyn Jenner that begins with the April 7 launch, exclusively on maccosmetics.com, of a limited-edition Lipstick created by Caitlyn. One hundred percent of the sales from her signature shade, Finally Free, will benefit the M•A•C AIDS Fund Transgender Initiative to expand its support of much needed grants to organizations and programs dedicated to improving transgender lives. Here, we speak with her about the transformative power of beauty and what it means to be Finally Free.

Page Six reported last summer Jenner was in talks with the company for an endorsement deal, however, MAC denied the report. The company instead released a statement praising Jenner and affirming its stance as a strong supporter of LGBT issues.

In a feature of Jenner for the deal, MAC compared the 1976 Associated Press Male Athlete of the Year to a “superhero.”

“She’s screen-goddess beautiful. She is on a mission to do good. And at 6’1” (6’5” in heels), one gets the distinct impression that she could leap a tall building in a single bound, if she wanted to,” wrote the company.

Jenner’s 20-year-old daughter Kendall currently models for Estée Lauder.

Ever wonder how to make a video go viral? @KendallJenner's got some tips: https://t.co/ZENj3q5lVA pic.twitter.com/PZV1SAmHGv

— Estée Lauder (@EsteeLauder) January 20, 2016

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

