Caitlyn Jenner Attacked over Gender Fairness in Sports Statement: ‘Doesn’t Understand Science,’ ‘Self Loathing, Vapid Fame-Whore That Abuses Privilege and Platform’

Republican candidate Caitlyn Jenner was attacked over the weekend by left-wing personalities regarding Jenner’s statement about transgender athletes and gender fairness in sports.

“It just isn’t fair,” Jenner said Saturday.

Male-to-female transgender model Plastic Martyr announced online to 62.9 thousand followers that Jenner is a “self loathing, vapid fame-whore that abuses her privilege & platform” because Jenner “opposes trans girls competing on female sports teams.”

Caitlyn Jenner opposes trans girls competing on female sports teams…..Excuse me while the trans community takes the knife out of our back.

This is why it’s important to #SayNoToJenner

Because she is a self loathing, vapid fame-whore that abuses her privilege & platform.

— Plastic Martyr (@plasticmartyr) May 2, 2021

“Caitlyn Jenner cannot be anti-trans, because (as any scholar will tell you) never in human history has a member of a minoritized or persecuted group turned against their own community in service to their own personal gain,” pediatrician Daniel Summers commented on the issue:

Caitlyn Jenner cannot be anti-trans, because (as any scholar will tell you) never in human history has a member of a minoritized or persecuted group turned against their own community in service to their own personal gain.

— Daniel Summers, MD (@WFKARS) May 2, 2021

Charlotte Clymer, self-described as “Writer. Lesbian. Veteran. Texan. Hoya. She/Her,”  tweeted, “Caitlyn Jenner is anti-trans. She doesn’t understand the science, and she is pandering to the ignorance of anti-trans people.”

“I have absolutely no problem saying Caitlyn Jenner supports and directly benefits from transphobia,” she added:

Caitlyn Jenner is anti-trans. She doesn’t understand the science, and she is pandering to the ignorance of anti-trans people. I have absolutely no problem saying Caitlyn Jenner supports and directly benefits from transphobia. https://t.co/wWZcUTPqj6

— Charlotte Clymer ️‍ (@cmclymer) May 1, 2021

Shadi Petosky, a transgender television showrunner, posted online that Republicans hate the GOP candidate.

“They hate you. Please wake up,” she said of Jenner.

You might be disconnected cause you live in a mountain fortress but since you announced — TERFS who worked with the Heritage Foundation to create this trans sports panic are calling you an AGP sexual fetishist and the Republicans say you’re a man.

They hate you. Please wake up. pic.twitter.com/qhK8IgP6mp

— Shadi Petosky (@shadipetosky) May 2, 2021

Self-designated “Activist” and “Campaigner,” Annie Wallace, said Jenner in is “league” with a “cult.”

So Caitlyn Jenner joins that tiny little odd group of trans people who are working against trans people, in league with the GC cult? Well it doesn’t come as a massive surprise.

— Annie Wallace (@anniewallace) May 2, 2021

Here are the facts: @Caitlyn_Jenner is willing to sacrifice the health & well-being of #trans kids to win votes. @GavinNewsom is not.

It’s that simple. @StopRepRecall@LosAngelesBladehttps://t.co/2Az8DP7T9d

— Equality California (@eqca) May 2, 2021

Jenner released a statement Saturday, “I think everybody deserves an opportunity to play in sports, no matter who you are, or what your identity.”

“More than five states have banned transgender biological males from computing in girls’ sports. And thirty states have ‘Anti-transgender legislation’ pending,” Breitbart News reported.

Jenner is running to unseat Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) in a recall election.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

