Chicago Pastor Takes on Rahm Emanuel Over Chick-Fil-A

The Obama Administration and its allies have been whining about bullies for some time now — but of course, they don’t mind if they are the ones doing the bullying. One of their agendas is bullying those who champion Judeo-Christian values (see Catholic Church vs. Sandra Fluke).

But now religious folks are fighting back. One of them is a Chicago neighborhood pastor, the Rev. Charles Lyons, who passionately argued in his sermon on Sunday that Mayor Rahm Emanuel, Alderman Proco “Joe” Moreno and their allies should withdraw their opposition to a new franchise of Chick-Fil-A that was to open in Chicago.

Chick-Fil-A certainly does not engage in thuggery, vote-buying, or widespread killing, so Emanuel was certainly correct.

On Sunday, Lyons, of the Armitage Baptist Church, read a letter in church that he plans to send to Rahm Emanuel. Lyons read: “Their money, their business, their taxes are not wanted? Not needed? This could easily be seen as anti-religious, agenda-driven bullying.”  He lauded Chick-Fil-A for being respectful of its employees as well as those who ate there, and warned of the day when “thought police” would come to his own church: “We will meet them at the door, respectfully, unflinchingly holding a copy of the sacred scriptures in one hand and a copy of the U.S. Constitution in the other.”

Last month Moreno and the Civil Rights Organization started the bullying; they demanded that Chick-Fil-A change its corporate policies to ensure an LGBT-inclusive non-discrimination rule, which would include diversity and cultural competency training, benefits for people in domestic partnerships and civil unions, culturally-sensitive ads in the LGBT community, transgender health benefits, and a rejection of activities that would undermine equality.

Now, thanks to the Rev. Lyons and those like him fighting back, the proverbial lamb is fast becoming the lion.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

