Church of England Issues Guidance for Clergy on Sex Change ‘Celebration’ Ceremonies

New Church of England (CofE) guidance instructs parishes on how they should hold “celebratory” ceremonies to mark a person’s “transition” to the opposite sex.

“The Church of England welcomes and encourages the unconditional affirmation of trans people, equally with all people, within the body of Christ, and rejoices in the diversity of that body into which all Christians have been baptized by one Spirit,” asserts a statement published by the church Tuesday.

Transgender vicar Dr Rev Tina Beardsley hailed the move as a positive step, claiming that “many families are affected nowadays; a family member, a friend or a work colleague has undergone a transition.”

My initial reflections on the Church of England's decision not to explore the possibility of a liturgy for trans people. https://t.co/0VEMNdheeN

— Christina Beardsley (@tina_beardsley) January 23, 2018

But the activist, whose social media activity revolves around the promotion of pro-LGBT causes, expressed disappointment over the church having stopped short of creating a whole new liturgy to mark transgender people’s decision to ‘change sex’.

The bishop of Blackburn and chair of the House of Bishops delegation committee, Julian Henderson, said: “We are absolutely clear that everyone is made in the image of God and that all should find a welcome in their parish Church.

“This new guidance provides an opportunity, rooted in scripture, to enable trans people who have ‘come to Christ as the way, the truth and the life’, to mark their transition in the presence of their Church family which is the body of Christ.”

However, Andrea Minichiello Williams, a lay member of the General Synod, blasted the new guidance for continuing the Church of England’s “devastating trajectory towards an outright denial of God and his word”.

Let Children Experiment with Gender Identity, Church of England Tells Schools https://t.co/H6b73sMCa3

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 13, 2017

“The Bible, God’s revealed and perfect word, does not recognise postmodern gender theory,” Ms Minichiello Williams pointed out, urging CoE bishops to “teach faithfully on this issue and for the clergy to speak with love, compassion and truth.”

According to the evangelical organisation GAFCON’s Susie Leafe, nine bishops on the House of Bishops’ delegation committee bypassed the CoE’s governing body as it oversaw production of the document.

She told Premier Christian News: “The issue that we’ve got here is the repurposing of baptism liturgy; that is a major decision that the House of Bishops have made without the consultation of Synod and that doesn’t bode well for the future.”

The Reverend Dr Malcolm Brown, CoE director of mission and public affairs, said there was “no settled view about precisely which aspects of the legal [sex change] process are necessary” within the church, but stated: “We can say with some confidence that excessive bureaucracy… is neither welcoming nor affirming of transgender people in relation to the structures of the law and society at large.”

Archbishop of Canterbury Declares God Gender Neutral https://t.co/yeOIV23Shv

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 22, 2018

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

