Conservative Transgender Commentator Blaire White Allegedly Assaulted for Wearing Trump Hat

Blaire White, a popular conservative transgender YouTuber, was allegedly assaulted while wearing a “Make America Great Again” hat in Hollywood last week.

According to a video uploaded by White, she had a nail torn off, which caused bleeding, and had liquid thrown in her face.



“I wanted to see what would happen if I wore a Trump hat in public in Hollywood. Ended up bloody and covered in alcohol, so I’d say NOT all that shocking lmao,” White wrote in a post on Twitter. “By the way, I’d like to make it clear that the experiment was simply to wear the hat in public. We didn’t do anything remotely inflammatory or investigative. We didn’t even really speak to them.”

NEW VIDEO: I wanted to see what would happen if I wore a Trump hat in public in Hollywood. Ended up bloody and covered in alcohol, so I'd say NOT all that shocking lmaooohttps://t.co/qKOkjD9maE pic.twitter.com/RGsNmbkgg2

— Blaire White (@MsBlaireWhite) November 12, 2017

By the way, I'd like to make it clear that the experiment was simply to wear the hat in public. We didn't do anything remotely inflammatory or investigative. We didn't even really speak to them.

— Blaire White (@MsBlaireWhite) November 12, 2017

In an email to Breitbart News, White claimed to not have filed a police report.

“Police instructed us to leave the scene of the 1st incident and we listened,” White explained. “And the person from the 2nd incident ran away instantly and no one stopped them.”

On Twitter, several users attempted to justify the assault, claiming White was being inflammatory and deserved the attack for wearing a pro-Trump hat.

She was wearing a hat that directly represents the worst sides of the country. Oppression, intolerance, racism, and worse all in their truest form. Fuck her. It's what she deserves.

— hec (@SUICldad) November 12, 2017

I'm sorry what happened Blair, but I don't understand what good is gonna come out of poking the bear? It's not surprise that if you jump into the lions den with a steak you're gonna get bitten. I just don't see what good could have come out of this except confirmation bias.

— Lucius (@Lucius_____) November 12, 2017

In 2016, libertarian commentator Lauren Southern was also allegedly attacked by “anti-fascist” protesters, with one allegedly throwing urine on her face, while in September, Twitter suspended two popular right-wing transgender commentators, Theryn Meyer and Michelle Catlin.

Charlie Nash covers technology and LGBT news for Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington and Gab @Nash, or like his page at Facebook.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

