Courtney Cox Facebook Show Features Transgender Man’s Failed Attempt to Breastfeed ‘Non-Binary’ Infant

In her Facebook Watch series following “pregnancy journeys,” Friends star Courtney Cox recently featured a transgender couple in which the male of the pair added implants to “breastfeed” their infant.

To set the stage, the “father” of the couple is a biological female named Ahanu, while the “wife” is a biological male named Petrona. The episode follows their lives as Ahanu gives birth. Meanwhile, after the child is born, the biological male claiming to be a transgender woman attempts to breastfeed but finds little success.

﻿

The Facebook Watch episode description says Ahanu and Petrona “struggle with family members over the decision to not gender their child.”

In the episode, Cox describes the couple as attempting to “overcome trans discrimination.” And in a Twitter thread from January, Petrona complained that Washington D.C., where they live, is working against them. “We are legally not able to be considered our child’s Parent & Mother because we are Transgender,” Petrona says, adding, “DC Code does not believe our family is legal.”

But Trans people are LEGALLY PROHIBITED from giving birth & having children in @WashingtonDC. 

DC government believes that Trans people deserve represention via @DCLGBTQ but @councilofdc discriminates against Trans Birthers & Families vía the DC Code.https://t.co/eLzC2D7Nkb

— Xemi Tapepechul de Bull Shields (@XemiNeSiwayul) January 15, 2021

Under @councilofdc DC Code, only cisgender Women are allowed to give birth in @washingtondc & only cis men & cis Women are allowed to be the second parent of a child. This is blatant systemic transphobia that has no place in DC.

— Xemi Tapepechul de Bull Shields (@XemiNeSiwayul) January 15, 2021

Under @councilofdc DC Code, only cisgender Women are allowed to give birth in @washingtondc & only cis men & cis Women are allowed to be the second parent of a child. This is blatant systemic transphobia that has no place in DC.

— Xemi Tapepechul de Bull Shields (@XemiNeSiwayul) January 15, 2021

The same episode features a gay man and lesbian woman who get together for the purpose of having a baby.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Facebook at: facebook.com/Warner.Todd.Huston.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

