Democrat Kansas Gov. Laura Kelly Flips Again, Says Men Should Play Women’s Sports 

Kansas Democrat Gov. Laura Kelly quickly returned to denying biological reality after receiving backlash for releasing an advertisement stating: “of course men should not play girls’ sports.”

FALSE! 

Liberal Laura Kelly, in a desperate new ad, says “of course” men should not play women’s sports. 

But she vetoed Fairness in Women’s Sports TWICE. 

She's been with Biden on this for years, now at reelection time she lies.

Kansans know it, and will vote her out. pic.twitter.com/j7RhExO5eM

— Derek Schmidt (@DerekSchmidtKS) September 21, 2022

According to the report:

[Kelly] denied that her ad was specifically targeted at transgender student-athletes when given the example of a 16-year-old high school student. Instead, she claimed her ad was talking about ‘a male over the age of 18’ who wanted to compete with girls — implying that her comments were about age rather than just gender identity. “The ad that I put out was to respond to the misleading attacks that my opponent has put out that I favor letting men play in girls sports,” Kelly claimed. “I have never said that.”

Kelly further doubled down, saying “the bills that [she] vetoed were discriminatory.”

“They were also designed by politicians. If this had come from the Kansas High School Activities Association, which is the governing body for sports in our schools, I would have addressed it differently,” she continued.

I can say with no uncertainty that biological men should not be sharing locker rooms with female athletes or competing in girls' sports. 

Kansas Legislature: send the Fairness in Women's Sports Act to my desk w/in the first 100 days I’m in office. Unlike Gov Kelly, I'll sign it! pic.twitter.com/PqaH9aCFwK

— Derek Schmidt (@DerekSchmidtKS) September 1, 2022

She’s wrong to oppose the Fairness in Women’s Sports Act and she’s wrong to mislead Kansans about her real position in her television ad. My position is crystal clear – female athletes in women's and girls sports should not be required to compete against biological males.

— Derek Schmidt (@DerekSchmidtKS) September 23, 2022

“Democrat Laura Kelly believes athletes born biological males should share locker rooms and be able to compete with girls and women in sports, and that position is out of touch with nearly two thirds of Americans,” said RGA spokesperson Joanna Rodriguez. “Kelly looked into a TV camera and told Kansans a lie, and she’s not sorry about it because she’s willing to do whatever it takes to give radical, woke activists a chance to influence Kansas schools.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

