Elliot Page Says Laws Regarding Transgender Kids Will Be ‘Responsible for the Death of Children’

Elliot Page — the transgender star formerly known as actress Ellen Page — is taking aim at state legislation regarding transgender kids, claiming the new laws will ultimately be responsible for the “death of children.”

Elliot Page spoke to Vanity Fair in advance of an Oprah Winfrey interview that is set to stream Friday on Apple TV+.

“The backlash right now is so intense. But the rhetoric coming from anti-trans activists and anti-LGBTQ activists—it’s devastating. These bills are going to be responsible for the death of children. It is that simple,” Page said.



Page was referring to a new law in Arkansas, as well as legislation in several other states, that would bar children from receiving irreversible hormone treatment and sex-change operations, as well as medication including puberty blockers.

Proponents of the legislation argue it will protect children from making permanent changes to their bodies. Transgender activists claim that such medical treatment represents vital healthcare for trans children.

Elliot Page told Vanity Fair that speaking out against these laws became a personal mission.

The Hollywood star recounted early experiences with gender dysphoria.

“I knew I was a boy when I was a toddler,” the Oscar-nominated Juno star said. “I was writing fake love letters and signing them ‘Jason.’ Every little aspect of my life, that is who I was, who I am, and who I knew myself to be. I just couldn’t understand when I’d be told, ‘No, you’re not. No, you can’t be that when you’re older.'”

Page added: “Now I’m finally getting myself back to feeling like who I am, and it’s so beautiful and extraordinary, and there’s a grief to it in a way.”

In December, the former Ellen Page announced her gender transition and preferred pronouns in an Instagram post.

The Canadian-born actress shot to fame in the 2007 movie Juno, playing a pregnant teen who chooses to have her baby. The role earned Page an Academy Award nomination for lead actress.

Page later appeared in the hit movie Inception and currently stars in the Netflix series The Umbrella Academy. She also appeared in two X-Men movies as Kitty Pride.

Follow David Ng on Twitter @HeyItsDavidNg. Have a tip? Contact me at dng@breitbart.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

