Exclusive: Doctors Slam American College of Physicians For Caving to LGBT Agenda

Doctors representing both the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons (AAPS) and the American College of Pediatricians are condemning the American College of Physicians (ACP) for announcing its overwhelming support of the militant LGBT agenda.

“The LGBT community deserves the same high quality care that any community in the United States should be getting, but may not be getting,” said ACP president Dr. Wayne J. Riley. “It’s based upon our longstanding policy in regard to eliminating healthcare disparities.”

Riley said that conversion or reparative therapy “is not a wise use of healthcare resources,” and also that full recognition of same-sex marriage is “important because we know from our members that simple things like hospital visitation and participation in the care of LGBT patients” have been a problem in the U.S.

“What to do?” Orient asks. “Are male organs and hormones normal in most people who have them, but not in a small percentage of people who also came from a Y-sperm? Excuse me, not exactly abnormal but in need of removal?”

“As for same-sex marriage, ACP is ignoring the moral issues (which are a part of holistic health) and the long-term societal and psychological consequences of deliberately depriving children of at least one-half of their family tree,” she adds.

Orient criticizes ACP’s attempt to use the media to lead Americans to believe the organization’s views are shared by all its physician-members.

“ACP doesn’t actually represent anybody except its own staff and hierarchy. Members have no meaningful input. Some keep sending in their $450 a year to keep from losing their ‘Fellow of the American College of Physicians’ award,” she states.

Regarding the organization’s agenda, Orient concludes, “ACP has supported every advance of cultural Marxism since the mid-1970s at least.”

Similarly, Michelle Cretella, M.D., president of the American College of Pediatricians, tells Breitbart News, “It is shameful that the ACP, like the majority of other professional medical organizations, has chosen ideology over science.”

Cretella continued:

The science is clear: no one is born gay or transgender. The psychodynamic and psychosocial theories of sexual desire and gender identity have never been disproven. No one has a civil right to a developmental disorder. It is well documented by those on both ends of the political spectrum that the normalization of homosexuality by the American Psychiatric and Psychological Associations was a result of a political and ideological coup, not of science.

Cretella recommends the book Destructive Trends in Mental Health: The Well-Intentioned Path to Harm by Dr. Nicholas A. Cummings, past-president of the American Psychological Association (APA), who was responsible for normalizing homosexuality in the APA in 1974.

“Despite being a life-long supporter of liberal causes, Cummings laments capitulating to political correctness without scientific support,” Cretella notes. “He states that the political correctness in mental health research today is worse than the McCarthyism he lived through and that it ‘tethers our intellects.’”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

