Franklin Graham: Obama’s LGBT Landmark a ‘Monument to Sin’

Rev. Franklin Graham is sharply critical of President Obama’s decision to dedicate a national monument to “the struggle for gay rights,” calling the landmark a “monument to sin.”

President Obama has selected the Stonewall Inn in New York’s Greenwich Village neighborhood for the first-ever national monument commemorating the battle for gay rights, reportedly because it is “the birthplace of America’s modern gay liberation movement.”

“War heroes deserve a monument, our nation’s founding fathers deserve a monument, people who have helped to make America strong deserve a monument — but a monument to sin?” asked Graham.

In his post, Graham suggested that a move of this sort is indicative of the nation’s moral decline. “I can’t believe how far our country has digressed. I hope that the president will reconsider,” he wrote.

A monument to sin? I can’t believe how far our country has digressed. https://t.co/SNz3LFBW2C

— Franklin Graham (@Franklin_Graham) May 6, 2016

Graham is no stranger to LGBT activism, and has been an outspoken critic of efforts to legalize gay marriage as well as recent attempts to offer crossdressing men legal access to women’s bathrooms and locker rooms.

After the passage of a Charlotte, North Carolina’s city ordinance permitting transgender residents to use either a men’s or women’s restroom, Graham called the bill “wicked” and “filthy” and accused Charlotte Mayor Jennifer Roberts of putting the LGBT agenda above the protection and well-being of children, women and families.

In 2015, when the Supreme Court ripped the question of same-sex marriage out of the hands of the American people and imposed it on the fifty states in its Obergefell v. Hodges ruling, Rev. Graham went on Sean Hannity’s radio show to denounce the decision. “Homosexuality is sin. Same-sex marriage is a sin against God,” he said.

At the same time, Graham was quick to insist that he wasn’t trying to single out homosexuality, but was just reacting to the move to legalize wicked behavior.

“I’m not here to throw stones at you because you want to marry someone of the same sex,” Rev. Graham said. “I just want to warn you, and I do this in love, that God will judge sin.”

“Lying is a sin, stealing is a sin, committing adultery [is a] sin. We’re all sinners, Sean, and Franklin Graham is a sinner,” he said.

Rev. Graham is not the only leader to decry President Obama’s attempts to equate the LGBT cause with the Civil Rights movement of the 1960s.

“President Obama is a disgrace to the black community,” said Rev. William Owens of the Coalition of African American Pastors (CAAP) after Obama compared the movement for same-sex marriage to Civil Rights activism.

“He is rewriting history. We didn’t suffer and die for gay marriage. We marched for opportunity, equality, justice, freedom from oppression. We are the true heirs of the civil rights movement. We have a new movement to reclaim the ‘real’ civil rights movement,” he said.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter   Follow @tdwilliamsrome


Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

