Gays, Progressives Rebuke George Takei on ‘Scientifically Ignorant’ Biological Sex

Many gays and fellow left-wingers took to Twitter to condemn the statement by gay actor George Takei that defending biological sex makes people sound “scientifically ignorant” and “elevate[s] transphobia.”

When you defend so-called “biological sex,” you sound scientifically ignorant and you elevate transphobia.

— George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) June 10, 2020

A number of gays and other progressive Twitter users sided with Rowling, with many claiming there can be no “same-sex” attraction unless biological “sex” exists, and others commenting on the horrific experiences families are enduring with children who claim they are uncomfortable with their biological sex.

If sex isn’t real, there’s no same-sex attraction. If sex isn’t real, the lived reality of women globally is erased. I know and love trans people, but erasing the concept of sex removes the ability of many to meaningfully discuss their lives. It isn’t hate to speak the truth.

— J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) June 6, 2020

One Twitter user accused Takei:

“You’re throwing females & your fellow homosexuals under the bus. You do realise that ‘gay’ has been redefined so that we’re no longer same sex attracted, & in stating our same sex attraction we’re being called transphobic? Support our trans family but accept reality. Sex matters.”

You're throwing females & your fellow homosexuals under the bus. You do realise that 'gay' has been redefined so that we're no longer same sex attracted, & in stating our same sex attraction we're being called transphobic?  Support our trans family but accept reality. Sex matters

— Darling Buds (@DarlinBudsOfMeh) June 10, 2020

I disagree with you! I am a transsexual man. Transitioned from a woman to man 25 years ago. I am and will forever be a biological female. How is this so hard to understand. If I was not a biological female them I would not be transsexual. Its dangerous to discount biology.

— Buck Angel® (@BuckAngel) June 12, 2020

According to George. Gay people don’t exist. They just born in the wrong sex/gender.

— Lord Grim Wilson (@amoneywilson) June 12, 2020

When another man is in my bed, I am very aware of his 'biological sex' and its relevance.

Suspect this also applies to you, no?

— Ed (@Ed_UKation) June 11, 2020

Another Twitter user replied to Takei, “Straightforward question: Are you, as an openly gay man, open to dating a trans man? Because if not, you’re just as ‘transphobic’ as the rest of us.”

Straightforward question: Are you, as an openly gay man, open to dating a trans man? Because if not, you're just as 'transphobic' as the rest of us.

— Dr Louise Moody (@drlouisejmoody) June 10, 2020

Following with the same argument, another challenged Takei’s statement, “So, transmen ARE men. So gay men need to include gay transmen as potential lovers OR they are transphobic. And straight women are transphobes if they don’t want to date a guy just because he is a transman. Right?”

So, transmen ARE men. So gay men need to include gay transmen as potential lovers OR they are transphobic. And straight women are transphobes if they don’t want to date a guy just because he is a transman. Right?

— Miranda #IStandWithJKRowling (@MirandaNewsom) June 10, 2020

Are you gonna date a person with a vagina then? As a gay male? Just wondering.

— Unholy Woman (@unholy_woman) June 10, 2020

@GeorgeTakei I assume since you believe trans women are women then you also believe trans men are fully men. Fair statement?As a gay man, would you date a trans man who claim he was gay?

— LA.Baker (@LABaker333) June 10, 2020

“I stand with @jk_rowling,” tweeted a progressive parent, “because my son has ROGD [rapid-onset gender dysphoria] and I can no longer trust his pediatrician. Gender ideology is tearing our family apart. We are liberal progressives but feel politically homeless.”

I stand with @jk_rowling because my son has ROGD and I can no longer trust his pediatrician.  Gender ideology is tearing our family apart.  We are liberal progressives but feel politically homeless.  #IStandWithJKR #istandwithjkrowling

— pstalin16 (@pstalin16) June 12, 2020

Still another progressive user chimed in: “I am ashamed of being part of the race that vilified and castigates @jk_rowling for having an opinion. I share her opinion and tomorrow I am going to take my ‘woke’ organisation, which has swallowed the Stoneballs Kool-aid to task. I might get sacked, but I don’t care.”

I am ashamed of being part of the race that vilified and castigates @jk_rowling for having an opinion. I share her opinion and tomorrow I am going to take my ‘woke’ organisation, which has swallowed the Stoneballs Kool-aid to task. I might get sacked, but I don’t care.

— No Point (@LadyNowhere) June 13, 2020

In Rowling’s recent essay published on her website, she discussed the term “Trans-Exclusionary Radical Feminist” (TERF), which radical transgender activists are using as a means to suppress biological women.

Rowling, who said she has done research on transgender ideology for a new book, said:

In practice, a huge and diverse cross-section of women are currently being called TERFs and the vast majority have never been radical feminists.

…

But accusations of TERFery have been sufficient to intimidate many people, institutions and organisations I once admired, who’re cowering before the tactics of the playground. ‘They’ll call us transphobic!’ ‘They’ll say I hate trans people!’ What next, they’ll say you’ve got fleas? Speaking as a biological woman, a lot of people in positions of power really need to grow a pair (which is doubtless literally possible, according to the kind of people who argue that clownfish prove humans aren’t a dimorphic species).

Rowling said transgender activists have reached a whole new level of misogyny in their treatment of biological women. She wrote:

We’re living through the most misogynistic period I’ve experienced. Back in the 80s, I imagined that my future daughters, should I have any, would have it far better than I ever did, but between the backlash against feminism and a porn-saturated online culture, I believe things have got significantly worse for girls.

drained. As a young mother, I was the primary caregiver to my child and put off  career goals. I know what it's like to have a female body. And it comes across as pretty fucking offensive to be told that acknowledging the reality of biological sex isn't real or makes me a bigot.

— itsagirl (@itsagir15496562) June 12, 2020

The misogyny of the gay male has been the greatest revelation for many women fighting for their rights.

— Joani Walsh (@joaniwalshi) June 12, 2020

It is the zenith of man's misogyny to tell a woman that her sex is so irrelevant and meaningless that any man can just decide to put on a dress and become a woman.

— AW (@ArtbyAWOHS) June 12, 2020

“Never have I seen women denigrated and dehumanised to the extent they are now,” the author said.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

