Girl Scouts Name Wendy Davis as 'Incredible' Woman, Show Ties to Abortion Industry



According to the report, the official Girl Scouts Twitter account referred to Davis, who filibustered a bill that banned abortions past 20 weeks of pregnancy, as “incredible,” and linked to a Huffington Post list containing the names of Gloria Steinem and Davis. 

The Girl Scouts’ ties to the institutional left and the abortion industry have become increasingly apparent, with Breitbart News’ Austin Ruse delivering the most recent exposé of the organization’s prominent blogger Josh Ackley, who moonlighted as lead singer of a “homo-punk” band called The Dead Betties. The band belongs to a movement called “homocore” that slams disapproval of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender lifestyles. 

Ruse subsequently reported that Ackley’s name has since been scrubbed from the Girl Scouts press page, but that he remains with the organization in its communications department. 

According to Cathy Cleaver Ruse, writing at the Washington Times, Ackley has been an important link between the Girl Scouts and Planned Parenthood, the abortion industry giant: 

In fact, it was Mr. Ackley who facilitated the Girl Scouts’ “no adults allowed” workshop at the United Nations – the workshop in which the Planned Parenthood sex brochure “Healthy, Happy, and Hot” was offered, although part of Mr. Ackley‘s job is to deny it. 

It wouldn’t be a surprise if someone like Mr. Ackley was behind the Girl Scouts’ recent scandal: a guidebook that tells girls to check with the leftist, George Soros-funded Media Matters before believing what they read in the news. 

The Girl Scouts have been allied with Planned Parenthood for years now, but more recently, they have gotten into the business of supporting promiscuous behavior in girls. The “Healthy, Happy, and Hot” sex brochure offered at the U.N. workshop provided this advice to young girls: 

Some people have sex when they have been drinking alcohol or using drugs. This is your choice. … If you want to have sex and think you might get drunk or high, plan ahead by bringing condoms and lube or putting them close to where you usually have sex. 

Breitbart News also reported last June of a recent Girl Scout-sponsored event in New York City which featured a live screening and panel discussion of the documentary MAKERS, a feminist, pro-abortion video account of prominent women who are described as “trailblazers” and “pioneers” who have changed America. 

During a panel discussion associated with the screening, Amy Richards, co-founder of the Third Wave Foundation, a pro-abortion, pro-LGBT group, was introduced as a member of the panel. In MAKERS, Richards described how her “first thought” when she learned she was pregnant with triplets was, “Is there any way to get rid of one of them?” Subsequently, she aborted two of them. 

If the Girl Scouts believe Wendy Davis is “incredible,” then it is possible they might also subscribe to their idol’s “religious” philosophy. In August, Davis said, that abortion is “sacred ground.” 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

