GOP Leaders in North Carolina Challenge Alliance of Transgender, Gay, Business, Media Groups

GOP leaders in North Carolina are pushing back twice as hard against the Democrat-led alliance of business, gay and transgender advocacy groups which is now trying to damage the state’s economy in the run-up to the November gubernatorial election. 

GOP leaders have been trying to finesse this transgender issue, because voters strongly oppose the transgender push while business leaders are pleading for an end to the Democrat-organized economic war against the state’s business community. But Gov. Pat McCrory and his deputies have now decided to go on the offensive against the far-reaching and unpopular transgender agenda, which would gradually stigmatize and outlaw the public’s recognition that the two sexes — men and women, boys and girls — want a civic society that supports their equal and different preferences. 

“This [transgender boycott] is so absurd it’s almost comical,” said a statement from GOP state spokeswoman, Kami Mueller.  If the NCAA wants mixed-sex bathrooms, 

I genuinely look forward to the NCAA merging all men’s and women’s teams together as singular, unified, unisex teams. Under the NCAA’s logic, colleges should make cheerleaders and football players share bathrooms, showers and hotel rooms.

The GOP Lt. Governor also got straight to the point, by highlighting the NCAA’s self-serving actions during rape scandals. 

“The NCAA’s [demand for mixed-sex bathrooms] sends a message to every female athlete and female fan attending their events that their privacy and security in a bathroom, shower or locker room isn’t worth the price of a ticket to a ballgame, said the response from North Carolina’s Lt. Governor Dan Forest:

McCrory has also cut an ad directly attacking the push for mixed-sex bathrooms, and his Democratic opponent, Attorney General Rory Cooper. 



The last time Governor McCrory showed he would fight for the privacy and safety, he slingshot past Cooper in the polls to grab a four or five point lead.  That lead shift represented a 15 point swing in McCrory’s favor.

During Governor Pat McCrory’s tenure, the state has made extraordinary strides in the state’s economy, and has managed to get itself out of the massive debt left behind by the previous administration under Governor Bev Perdue.

Here are just a few stunning economic success stories as compiled by the North Carolina Department of Commerce in a report release on August 22, 2016:

The list goes on, citing rapid small business growth and multiple awards for ‘best business climate’, as well as noting that people are continuing to move here in large numbers. Tourism numbers are also up in nearly every single county in the state. 

However local media have either under-reported or buried it the good news. Why? It’s not helping Democrats in the state, in particular Cooper, who is challenging McCrory in this Fall’s election.

The HB2 bill is a compromise law. It was passed in March, and it preserves single-sex facilities for the public. But it also allows transgenders to use opposite-sex public facilities after they undergo surgery. However, because the law preserves the normal distinctions between male and female — dubbed the “gender binary” by gay groups — it is fiercely rejected by Democratic and gay advocacy groups. 

The North Carolina Democratic Party’s David Miranda also issued a statement. However, Miranda was cited in the WikiLeaks DNC Email dump in an email exchange that characterized the economic sabotage in North Carolina as “awesome”.

This recent attempt at fiscal blackmail by the NCAA is hardly a coincidence. It would seem that  the announcement is a clear effort to stomp on the good economic news in the state and revive the main campaign point of the Democrats. 

Local media seems uninterested that the NCAA has had transgender friendly policies since 2011, but yet waited six months after the passage of HB2 to suddenly pull their games out of North Carolina. The headlines from around the state were practically gleeful about the news.

To read more about the gay vs. “gender binary” fight in North Carolina, click here. 




Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

