Group Sends Letter to Donald Trump over Bathroom Bill: ‘The Issue Is Simply Privacy’

Privacy for All Students, an organization based in California, has sent an open letter to GOP frontrunner Donald Trump following his recent comments on North Carolina’s bathroom legislation.

“We have compassion for those that believe that biology has betrayed them. We acknowledge their discomfort in traditionally sex separated facilities. As a society we have long made accommodations for some without violating the privacy of all,” the open letter reads.

Thursday morning on NBC’s Today Show, Trump was asked about the law and said transgenders should “use the bathroom that they feel is appropriate,” suggesting that the real estate mogul opposes North Carolina’s law.

Privacy for All Students is an advocacy organization that opposes California’s Transgender, Co-ed bathroom bill. The group’s open letter to Trump reads:

Recently you spoke out on an issue that is very important to many Americans: privacy in public bathrooms, locker rooms and showers. These facilities have traditionally been sex separated and much of the public wants to keep that tradition.

For some the issue may be decency and morality. For others it is about safety. For a very large portion of the public, the issue is simply privacy. They believe that a biological boy should never expose himself to a biological girl against her will. And a biological girl should never be forced to expose herself to a biological boy against her will.

The issue is unwanted exposure to and from those that are physically opposite.

Sex separated bathrooms, showers and locker rooms prevent unwanted exposure. The policy you have embraced does not.

Penthouses and private planes allow a level of separation and privacy that does not exist for most of us down below. A 14-year-old girl changing her clothes in a public school locker room or a 12-year-old boy using a urinal may be extremely uncomfortable when a physically opposite person is sharing that space with them. Will you help them avoid that discomfort? Or will you mock their modesty?

We have compassion for those that believe that biology has betrayed them. We acknowledge their discomfort in traditionally sex separated facilities. As a society we have long made accommodations for some without violating the privacy of all.

There has been much talk about how your home-grown values are the same as those values in the rest of the country.

What we do with this issue could expose our bodies and will expose our values.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

