Guilty: Doctor Ran Illegal Transgender Clinic, Treated Children as Young as 12 

A doctor who gave hormones to children as young as 12 has been found guilty of running an unlicensed sex-change service.

After working with children and adults and prescribing controversial, irreversible treatments, the General Medical Council (GMC) received complaints and she was stopped for practising in certain areas.

The Healthcare Inspectorate Wales (HIW) launched a case against Webberly last year and refused to give her website a licence before prosecuting the firm and her personally, after she “refused to stop providing services to patients.”

She will be sentenced in November.

Dr Helen Webberley has been prosecuted for illegally providing online healthcare services. Webberley is the doctor who gave cross-sex hormones to 12 year-olds – available only from age 16 through NHS GIDS.  "Unregistered healthcare services pose a risk to patient safety" https://t.co/7B70Ixev7L

— TransgenderTrend (@Transgendertrd) October 5, 2018

HIW Chief Executive Dr Kate Chamberlain commented: “I welcome the decision of the court today. Unregistered healthcare services pose a risk to patient safety as they are not subject to the same level of scrutiny as registered services.”

Stephanie Davies-Arai of the Transgender Trend group slammed Webberley last year, when the case was launched, branding her a “rogue doctor” who was giving “serious life-changing treatment” to people too young to make such decisions.

She claimed Webberley was providing medicine to 850 transgender patients after just one hour of training via an online course, which was designed by a transgender campaign group.

My suggestion is that ALL kids ‘know their gender’! 'Kids Who Identify as Trans “Know Their Gender,” AAP Says in Important New Guidelines' via @red_tricycle – https://t.co/jCwFQseyrp

— Dr Helen Webberley (@MyWebDoctorUK) October 4, 2018

Webberley, meanwhile, insisted she had “read everything going on gender care, met every single type of gendered person you can possibly meet, and talked to different professionals from across the whole of the world to inform my practice”.

On Saturday night she wrote on her website: “Today’s verdict is hugely disappointing.”

Earlier this year, figures revealed the number of children seeking help from Britain’s National Health Service (NHS) for ‘gender issues’ has nearly quadrupled in the past few years, with some cases involving children as young as four.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

