Hillary Spars with Texas Governor over Houston’s Refusal to Allow Men in Ladies’ Rooms

Democrat presidential candidate Hillary Clinton sparred on twitter on election day with Texas Governor Greg Abbott over Houston’s transgender “bathroom ordinance.” Hillary Clinton injected herself into Houston’s bathroom ordinance vote again and responded to the Texas Governor’s election day tweet urging Houstonians to vote against the ordinance.

As reported by Breitbart Texas, voters of Houston came out in massive numbers and soundly rejected Mayor Annise Parker’s ordinance proposal that would have allowed men to enter women’s bathrooms, showers and changing areas based on gender identification. The HERO (Houston Equal Rights Ordinance) proposition was rejected by a vote of 61 to 39 percent with 95 percent of the ballots counted.

Governor Abbott tweeted to Houstonians on election day encouraging them to “Vote Texas values, not @HillaryClinton values. Vote NO on City of Houston Proposition 1. No men in women’s bathrooms.”

HOUSTON: Vote Texas values, not @HillaryClinton values. Vote NO on City of Houston Proposition 1. No men in women’s bathrooms.

— Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) November 2, 2015

Clinton  tweeted back at the Governor saying “@GregAbbott_Tx is right about one thing: equality is one of Hillary’s values.  Houston-Vote #YesOnProp1 today.”

.@GregAbbott_TX is right about one thing: equality is one of Hillary’s values. Houston—vote #YesOnProp1 today. https://t.co/AI0IWnqhB7 — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) November 3, 2015

The Texas governor responded back to the Democrat presidential candidate and asked if we should expect her views on the Second Amendment to change like her views on equality regarding gay marriage. He then linked to a 2004 video on C-Span where Mrs. Clinton spoke out supporting marriage as defined by one man and one woman.

.@HillaryClinton – so America can expect your #2A values to change like your equality values https://t.co/srN0L51mNJ https://t.co/409tM4wrt2

— Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) November 3, 2015

On October 29th, Breitbart Texas Bob Price reported that Clinton weighed in to support the Houston ordinance. The ordinance which was soundly defeated, would have allowed men who are dressed in female attire or otherwise “identify” with the feminine gender, to use women’s bathrooms, showers and locker rooms. The Democrat presidential hopeful had tweeted out her support to activists in Houston.

“No one should face discrimination for who they are or who they love — I support efforts for equality in Houston & beyond,” Clinton tweeted.

Liberals, including Hollywood personalities came out to inject themselves into Houston politics by supporting the bathroom ordinance. Actress Sally Fields made an appearance in Houston supporting the ordinance. Even the left-of-center The Washington Post tried to weigh in on Houston politics, Breitbart Texas reported.

Conservatives brought out their own big guns as former Houston baseball all-star Lance Berkman and the Houston Texans NFL franchise owner Bob McNair weighed in against the ordinance.

On November 4, Houston voters followed the advice of Governor Abbott and soundly rejected the bathroom ordinance supported by Hillary Clinton.

Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. Follow her on Twitter@LanaShadwick2




 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

