Homosexual Activists Attack Parents Protesting German Curriculum

The Observatory on Intolerance and Discrimination against Christians has reported that homosexual activists in Germany attacked parents who were protesting a new “sexual diversity” curriculum in their schools. The parents felt that the new curriculum featured a pro-homosexual agenda., and held rallies in Baden-Württemberg and Cologne. The Observatory wrote:

Protesters were physically attacked and it was felt that the police failed to protect the parents’ basic right of assembly…Christian parents were shouted at with obscenities. They were spit at, eggs were thrown, and little bags with feces or color. Cables of loud speakers were torn out. Pages were ripped out of the bible and used to wipe backsides, then formed into a ball and thrown at the parents. Christians were deeply hurt in this process. At least one banner was snatched and destroyed in front of the eyes of the parents. Marshals were target[ed] with pepper sprays. Shouting by counter-demonstrator[s] made the planned public speaking partly impossible.

The Observatory continued, “A demonstration by parents that was to take place in February in Stuttgart was disrupted and had to end early due to a counter demonstration by homosexualists … Up to 1000 parents, many with their children, came to express their irritation regarding early sexualization of school children.” 

The new curriculum was encouraged by the Green and Socialist government parties in Baden-Württemberg. 

The German news service The Local, Baden-Württemberg’s ruling regional Green/SPD coalition was joined by other advocates of the new curriculum, who said the curriculum “will promote tolerance of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, transsexual and intersexual people.”

Parents and teachers opposing the new curriculum have started a petition that has accumulated almost 200,000 signatures. The petition writes that the curriculum would trigger “educational, moral and ideological re-education of the general school system.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

