Judge Rules Obamacare Transgender, Abortion Protections Violate Religious Freedom

A federal judge ruled on Tuesday that Obamacare’s special protections for transgender individuals and women who choose to have abortions violate religious freedom.

As the Hill noted, Reed is the same judge who ruled last December that Obamacare in its entirety is unconstitutional.

The plaintiffs argued the regulations would require physicians to perform procedures that would force them to violate their deeply held faith beliefs.

They further argued that the definition of sex should be the indisputable biological differences between males and females as acknowledged at or prior to birth, rather than a definition fabricated by transgender ideology. The plaintiffs also said the Obamacare regulations would require healthcare providers to perform or refer patients for abortion services in order to avoid sex discrimination on the basis of termination of pregnancy.

The injunction prohibited the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) from enforcing some of Obamacare’s requirements as they pertain to persons who claim to be of a gender that is incompatible with their biological sex.

That court found that the Obama administration regulation was overbroad and inconsistent with the text of the 1972 Title IX law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sex. The court order remains in full force and effect today and HHS is bound by it as we continue to review the issue. Everyone deserves to be treated with respect and HHS’s Office for Civil Rights will continue to vigorously enforce all laws as written and passed by Congress, prohibiting discrimination in healthcare on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, and disability.

In May, the Trump administration announced a proposed rule that would change the Obama administration’s definition of sex discrimination under the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) by eliminating “gender identity” and “termination of pregnancy.”

HHS said that, in 2016, the Obama administration redefined sex discrimination to include termination of pregnancy and gender identity, the latter of which it defined based, on transgender ideology, as “one’s internal sense of being ‘male, female, neither, or a combination of male and female.’”

“When Congress prohibited sex discrimination, it did so according to the plain meaning of the term, and we are making our regulations conform,” said HHS Office for Civil Rights Director Roger Severino. “The American people want vigorous protection of civil rights and faithfulness to the text of the laws passed by their representatives. The proposed rule would accomplish both goals.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

