Labour Appoints Racist Transgender Activist as Equalities Policy Adviser

A transgender activist who has attacked “all white people” as the white “race” as innately dangerous has been appointed by the Labour Party as a shadow cabinet adviser on equalities issues.

She would “advise Shadow Secretary of State for Women and Equalities, Dawn Butler MP, on issues affecting the LGBT+ community”, as part of the role, as well as “help form and push through fairer and more effective policy change”.

In recent days, the activist has implied the President of the United States is a racist and claimed that the suffragettes were “white supremacists”.

There appears to have been little consultation on the creation of the group, with LGBT Labour – an established, elected group of party members – accusing it of being an “unelected and undemocratic group” taking over their work.

Ms. Bergdorf first rose to prominence when she was fired from a L’Oreal advertising campaign in September last year, after saying “[the white] race is the most violent and oppressive force of nature on Earth” in a foul-mouthed rant online.

Absolutely delighted to have launched @UKLabour LGBTQ Advisory panel at Parliament yesterday Thanks to @DawnButlerBrent – with @jeremycorbyn @AnthonyWatson @MsLadyPhyll @Charliecondou @MunroeBergdorf #LGBTHM18 pic.twitter.com/Qombk8Qjww

— Linda Riley (@LindaRiley8) February 27, 2018

In comments directed at an entire ethnic group, she argued that white people “inherited” bigoted attitudes and are intrinsically dangerous by virtue of their biology.

“Come see me when you realise that racism isn’t learned, it’s inherited and consciously or unconsciously passed down through privilege.

“Once white people begin to admit that their race is the most violent and oppressive force of nature on Earth… then we can talk.

“Until then stay acting shocked about how the world continues to stay f*cked at the hands of your ancestors and your heads that remain buried in the sand with hands over your ears.”

After making the explicitly racist comments, Ms. Bergdorf was promptly invited on the BBC to spread her views on multiple occasions, was verified on Twitter, and will now be advising Her Majesty’s Opposition on policy.

Walking in 3 fashion week shows in NYC and LDN as well as non stop magazine work, panels, speeches and writing in between and other exciting projects that I’ll be able to share with you soon, is something that I could never foresee happening.

— Munroe Bergdorf (@MunroeBergdorf) February 22, 2018

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

