Montana State University Faces Lawsuit for Punishing Views on Transgender Lifestyles

Montana State University is facing a lawsuit after allegedly suspending a student from campus for confiding in his instructor about being “uncomfortable with transgender lifestyles.”

According to the court summary, Powell had confided in his instructor, Katharine Kujawa, in a private meeting that was held in her office regarding transgenders.

“Powell was uncomfortable with transgender lifestyles [and] opted not to speak in class,” said the court summary, “After class on May 24, 2016, Powell spoke with Kujawa [in her office] believing that their conversation was confidential.”

Kujawa reacted to the private meeting by filing a “Safety & Welfare” report against Powell with the Dean of Student’s office two days later, and then informed the transgender student of her private conversation with Powell.

The instructor then allegedly asked if Perry if he “felt safe” walking to the Office of Institutional Equity (OIE) to file an additional report against Powell, to which the transgender student replied by stating that he did feel safe, and showed Kujawa his pocketknife.

The transgender student then filed a report against Powell with Title IX coordinator Jyl Shaffer, who assigned the case to Graduate Research Assistant James Sletten, and then informed Perry that he should “utilize campus police” if he felt uncomfortable.

According to Powell, the university had issued him a “trespass warning, interim suspension, and no-contact order” in response to Perry’s report, and about a week later, Sletten had turned in his report, which had found Powell guilty of “Hostile Environment Harassment” due to his private meeting with Kujawa.

The judge who had ordered the case to go on trial, noted that “mere offensiveness is not enough to create a hostile environment,” which raises the question as to whether the investigators at MSU had violated Powell’s First Amendment rights.

“Neither the complainant nor the investigator would be entitled to claim a violation of this policy because he or she was offended by the speaker’s viewpoint,” reads the court summary.

The judge added that Sletten’ s and Shaffer’s treatment “could be found to have been biased.”

“Powell asserts that MSU treated Perry [and himself] differently under Title IX by ignoring Perry’s threatening gesture of showing a pocket knife — while finding that Powell violated MSU policy by virtue of a statement allegedly made to Kujawa,” the summary states.

You can follow Alana Mastrangelo on Twitter at @ARmastrangelo and on Instagram.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

