Mother Set to Launch Legal Battle over Dead Transgender ‘Daughter’s Sperm’

The mother of a deceased male-to-female transgender teenager is set to sue a Glasgow fertility clinic in order to gain possession of her ‘daughter’s sperm’.

“As a teenager, she delayed hormone blockers to save her sperm to enable her to have her own biological children. She had made me promise that if anything were to happen to her, her children would be brought into the world,” Anderson told BBC Scotland.

“I am going to do everything I can to honour her wishes – not just for her but for anyone else who is caught in this position. It kind of sparked a little fire in my belly and I want to make her wishes come true,” the mother said.

The cause of death was characterised as “unascertained”.

UK: Trans 'Man' and 'Non-Binary' Partner Give Birth Using 'Female' Sperm Donor https://t.co/itZqqD9gtJ

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) December 29, 2019

Under the current legislation in the UK on human fertilisation, the mother of a sperm donor does not have the right to request the samples, a right which is only afforded to romantic partners of a deceased donor.

A fellow in medical ethics at the University of Edinburgh, David Obree said that the gender identity of Ellie is legally “irrelevant” in the case.

The solicitor for the mother of the late trans teen, Virgil Crawford, said that the case presents an “unusual, interesting, important and complex legal issue”.

“What we’re trying to achieve would be to get an order from the court that Ellie’s mum would be entitled to make use of her sperm for the purpose that Ellie intended – that being to create a genetic child of hers and a grandchild for Ms Anderson,” Crawford said.

An NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde spokeswoman said: “We are sorry to hear about this young woman’s death and our sympathies are with her family.”

“Glasgow Royal Infirmary Assisted Conception Services is licensed and regulated by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority. The storage of gametes (sperm) is managed in line with the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act (1990) and complies with the consents provided by the donors,” the spokeswoman added.

UK Judge Rules Belief That ‘Men Cannot Change Into Women’ Is ‘Not Worthy of Respect In a Democratic Society’ https://t.co/GU41SeSHxo

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) December 19, 2019

Follow Kurt on Twitter at @KurtZindulka

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

