National Geographic Celebrates Transgender Child on January Cover

Editor in Chief of National Geographic magazine Susan Goldberg celebrates transgenderism by putting a nine-year-old feminine boy on the January cover of the magazine.

So proud of our @NatGeo Jan issue, 100% devoted to exploring gender. We're grateful to all who let us into their lives. #GenderRevolution pic.twitter.com/jJq9HWFTSc

— Susan Goldberg (@susanbgoldberg) December 15, 2016

In an op-ed at USA Today, Goldberg insists that because society is evolving in its consideration of gender, National Geographic is featuring Avery Jackson on its cover. She writes:

The story of gender plays out all around us. More and more, celebrities are shining a spotlight on the subject. But more quietly, our children, parents, teachers, medical professionals, and officials every day confront an array of issues with gender at the center. Everywhere we looked, in the U.S. and around the globe, individuals and organizations are fighting to redefine traditional gender roles, whether it is girls in war-torn Sierra Leone rejecting the cultural norm of female genital mutilation and child marriage, men in Sweden making use of extended paternal leave after having a child, or people who reject binary, boy-girl labels and find their true identity elsewhere on a gender spectrum.

Goldberg adds that she applauds the “bravery” of transgendered individuals who have revealed the “brutal discrimination and ostracism” they face.

XX and XY don't tell the full story of gender. My #GenderRevolution op-ed for @USATODAY. https://t.co/qz1Fqh785T

— Susan Goldberg (@susanbgoldberg) December 19, 2016

The magazine also touts its documentary titled Gender Revolution: A Journey with Katie Couric. “Now that we know XX and XY, and blue and pink, don’t tell the full story, it is time to write a new chapter to ensure that we all can thrive in this world no matter what our gender — or decision to not identify a gender,” she states.

Breitbart News reported in June, however, that the American College of Pediatricians showed the gender ideology is harmful to children and that transgendered children are psychologically confused and at risk for mental health disorders. The College stated:

No one is born with a gender. Everyone is born with a biological sex. Gender (an awareness and sense of oneself as male or female) is a sociological and psychological concept; not an objective biological one…

A person’s belief that he or she is something they are not is, at best, a sign of confused thinking. When an otherwise healthy biological boy believes he is a girl, or an otherwise healthy biological girl believes she is a boy, an objective psychological problem exists that lies in the mind not the body, and it should be treated as such. These children suffer from gender dysphoria. Gender dysphoria (GD), formerly listed as Gender Identity Disorder (GID), is a recognized mental disorder in the most recent edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association (DSM-V)…

“According to the DSM-V, as many as 98% of gender confused boys and 88% of gender confused girls eventually accept their biological sex after naturally passing through puberty,” the College asserts. “Conditioning children into believing that a lifetime of chemical and surgical impersonation of the opposite sex is normal and healthful is child abuse.”

Similarly, Youth Trans Critical Professionals — a group of self-described “left-leaning, open-minded, and pro-gay rights” professionals say it is risky to affirm young people who claim to be transgender and provide them with hormonal and surgical treatments to change their bodies.

“Our concern is with medical transition for children and youth,” say Youth Trans Critical Professionals on their website. “We feel that unnecessary surgeries and/or hormonal treatments which have not been proven safe in the long-term represent significant risks for young people.”

“Policies that encourage — either directly or indirectly — such medical treatment for young people who may not be able to evaluate the risks and benefits are highly suspect, in our opinion,” says the organization, which is composed of psychologists, social workers, doctors, and other professionals.

The professionals express “alarm” that, because of the current trendiness of being transgendered, many young people have decided they are a member of the opposite sex simply as a result of “binges” on social media sites. They describe a process of transgender activists recruiting these young people for their “cult.”

“There is evidence that vulnerable young people are being actively recruited and coached on such sites to believe that they are trans,” the professionals say.

Despite such potential mental health problems associated with gender confusion, children who claim to be the opposite sex are no longer legally permitted to see a therapist to get stabilizing “conversion therapy” in some states. Youth Trans Critical Professionals sees such state prohibitions as dangerous since they may block the process of critical thinking and evaluation of the young person regarding the reasons why he or she desires to become a transgender member of the opposite sex.

“While the sentiment behind this legislation is laudable, in some cases, it is being interpreted to mean that therapists cannot explore gender identity with a youth who is professing to be trans,” argue the professionals. “This would mean we can’t ask why; we can’t explore underlying mental health issues; we can’t consider the symbolic nature of the gender dysphoria; and we can’t look at possible confounding issues such as social media use or social contagion.”

But gay advocacy groups are determined to enforce their claims that gender is fluid, that people are free to chose their lifestyle independent of their biology, that society should insist that there’s really no such thing as a “gender binary,” and government should deny that heterosexual boys and girls, and heterosexual men and women, are the civic norm. So the gay advocacy group, the Human Rights Campaign, tweeted out its support of National Geographic‘s gender-blending, non-heterosexual cover:

Avery, a trans girl, is on @NatGeo's cover. Honored to have her parents on @HRC's Parents for Trans Equality Council https://t.co/CSg8ExkOC0 pic.twitter.com/YjKuPJAO6g

— Human Rights Campaign (@HRC) December 18, 2016

A study of the 2010 census showed that only one out of every 2,400 adults have changed their names to the opposite sex.

 

 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

