New FIFA Rules Would Allow Men to Compete Against Women Without Testosterone Suppressors

The new rules proposed by international soccer’s governing body, FIFA, are looking to erase testosterone requirements and allow trans female athletes to play against natural-born women just by “self-identifying.”

FIFA’s proposed rules change is only in the early stages of consideration and still must go through a debate session. Still, if adopted, the rules would throw the door wide for all transgender participants without any restrictions.

The Mail notes that some sports officials are shocked by FIFA’s proposal. For example, professor Jurgen Steinacker, the chair of World Rowing’s Sports Medicine Commission, recently insisted that if such a rule were adopted across sports, it would essentially “dissolve” women’s sports.



The Adidas Conext 21 Official match ball (FIFA/FIFA via Getty Images)

A group of 38 medical experts agreed with Steinacker by publishing a position paper maintaining that using only a “self-identifying” criteria is not “scientific or medically based” and is unfair to natural-born females.

“A starting point that trans women are eligible to play in the female category, in a sport like football, contradicts the logical conclusion from the mountain of evidence showing that those born male and who go through normal male puberty have several physical advantages over those born female, and probably puts those born female at higher risk of injury during direct physical contact,” added Manchester Metropolitan University Dr. Alun Williams.

The divergent treatments of the transgender athlete issue, both coming only days apart, are evidence that a major battle over the topic is being waged in the sports world. At heart are several key questions: Do trans female athletes have a competitive advantage over natural-born females? And if so, how can liberal sports leagues still follow the political tenet of “inclusion” if it damages female sports?

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Facebook at: facebook.com/Warner.Todd.Huston, or Truth Social @WarnerToddHuston

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

