Nolte: New York Times NAMBLA-izes Pre-Teen Boys Wearing Eye Makeup

One of the healthiest of human instincts is to feel your stomach roll over at the sight of sexualized children. Though we might not be able to articulate it, there is a big difference between a little kid playing grownup and, say, this… And that is not a little girl, by the way; that is a young boy as photographed by the left-wing New York Times.

Written by Bee Shapiro, the article features no less than six photographs of adolescent and even prepubescent boys wearing and putting on women’s makeup, and even posing in uncomfortably suggestive ways — including this ten-year-old.

The article justifies its existence through social media numbers, the legions of followers these sexed-up boys have been able to attract on Instagram and Twitter. For the man-in-the-raincoat crowd, the Times is even good enough to helpfully link these social media accounts, which include the kind of photos that would look perfect on the walls of Jared Fogle’s prison cell.

Oddly enough, the Times did not seem at all interested in examining just who might be following a social media account that features little boys made up like tarts staring directly into the camera.

The article further justifies itself with the notion that this kind of pre-teen sexualization is becoming the norm, is a healthy pushback against those awful “gender norms” (who’s anti-science now?), and that what we now have on our hands is a “seismic power shift in the beauty industry, which has thrust social media influencers to the top of the pecking order. Refreshingly, they come in all shapes, sizes, ages, and, more recently, genders.”

Anyone who has spent any time outside knows that the documented mental illness that is gender confusion is not growing. The only thing growing is the media’s partisan desire to pretend it is normal and healthy, that self-mutilation is the key to finding your true self, that the unbelievably high suicide rate for those afflicted with gender dysphoria have something to do with bigotry as opposed to the mental illness itself.

Yes, this is all part of the media’s toxic war against masculinity, but that is the least of what is really going on.

This is yet another blatant attempt to destroy the innocence of our children. Lurking beneath the sheep’s clothing of journalism, the mainstream media are dragging the innocent into their twisted and depraved fantasy world, a world where there are no norms, mores, morality, or judgment — where young boys and girls are up for grabs.

You see, there is no place where you will find a happier leftist than in that precious and influential spot between parent and child. Whether it is their public schools’ teaching first graders about homosexuality, their Disney Channels’ telling them boys can be princesses, or their New York Times’ normalizing (NSFW) this, using the State and billions of corporate dollars, these modern-day Caligulas are coming for the kids.

And they are as devious as they are relentless.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

