NOW, GLAAD Slow to Defend Conservatives

Groups like the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation and the National Organization for Women exist to protect the rights of those too often attacked in the press or in the culture at large.

But their noble missions seem to hit a speed bump when it comes time to defend conservatives who happen to fall into their protective sphere.

Earlier this month, a gay reality show star claimed he was assaulted for being conservative. The incident didn’t draw massive press and outrage, so Big Hollywood reached out to GLAAD for a response. Their reaction was muted and brief:


“GLAAD’s  mission is to fight for people, Republican or Democrat, who are  targeted for being lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender.   No one should  be targeted  for their political beliefs either, but advocacy around those issues is  outside of our mission.   That’s what you guys do.”

At least GLAAD’s reaction to the alleged assault didn’t actively attack the right. That’s precisely the tactic chosen by NOW after it took several days to drum up outrage over a sitting Congresswoman being grossly insulted on a late night talk show:



I am heartened to see that conservatives are learning how hostility  toward women in public life functions and and how it feels to be on the  receiving end. However, I can’t help but wonder why their outrage is  limited to those they condemn as liberals for taking shots at the  Bachmanns and the Palins of the world. Rush Limbaugh and his ilk are  infamous for using sexist, racist, classist, homophobic remarks against  anyone who doesn’t march to his extremist drumbeat. NOW regularly calls  out sexism directed at conservative women as well as feminists, and we  often speak up to remind everyone, including our political allies, that  these types of slurs are harmful to all women, and they need to stop.  The Roots’ song choice for Bachmann’s entrance was disrespectful,  degrading and juvenile, and the bandleader’s apology was weak.  Thankfully, host Jimmy Fallon and NBC stepped up with more sincere  apologies. Now, will the right wing start policing its own?   I’m not  holding my breath. – NOW President Terry O’Neill

You have to read a few sentences in before unearthing the proper outrage.

NOW did far better when Newsweek ran a nasty cover story on Bachmann entitled “The Queen of Rage.” Yet the organization sat on its collective hands when a member of Team Obama treated a cardboard cutout of Hillary Clinton in a disgusting fashion.

So, which is it? Do people on the right deserve the protection of NOW and GLAAD, or is it a case-by-case situation?

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

