Only Borders On? Health Minister Says Transgenderism Medical Intervention ‘Borders on Ideological’

Britain’s health minister has said that transgenderism-based medical intervention in the UK borders on the limits of leftist ideology.

His comments come after an independent report found that many medical professionals in Britain were afraid of challenging leftist orthodoxy regarding transgenderism, with considerable ethical questions being raised in regards to the intervention given to kids deemed to be trans.

According to a report by The Telegraph, the Health Secretary expressed concerns regarding the report’s interim findings in the House of Commons on Tuesday in response to a question on the issue from a Conservative Party colleague.

“That is why in this emerging area of course we need to be absolutely sensitive, but we need to make sure that there is holistic is provided, that it is not a one-way street, and that all medical interventions are based on the best clinical evidence,” he continued.

‘There was No Male In the Hospital’ – UK Hospital Covered Up Rape by Trans Patienthttps://t.co/82KNMy7W27

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) March 18, 2022

While it is understandable that Javid is concerned about the leftist dominance within the NHS regarding transgenderism-related medical intervention, what appears to be a little strange is that the Health Secretary believes that treatment within the socialised health service only borders on being ideological.

This seems to stand in contrast with the aforementioned report on the national health service’s medical practices, which found that professionals were “pressure to adopt an unquestioning affirmative approach” regarding transgender-related cases that was “at odds with the standard process of clinical assessment and diagnosis that they have been trained to undertake in all other clinical encounters”.

Meanwhile, a whistleblower who formerly served as the head of one of Britain’s leading national healthcare clinics in charge of transgender medical intervention claimed that kids were being deemed to be transgender over ultimately “superficial” phenomena.

“There’s a focus on very, very superficial surface phenomena and lack of probing,” said the former governor at the Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust. “Many young people, who are unwilling or unable… to conform to gender stereotypes… are misunderstood as being transgender.”

“That is, if you don’t like pink ribbons and dollies, you’re not really a girl,” he continued.

The medical expert went on to criticise the political pressure within the institute, as well as the power external political lobbies had on influencing treatment, which often for children progressed quickly onto surgery upon them reaching adulthood.

“Gender services tend towards a very damaging, peculiar, superficial simplification,” he continued. “Alignment with affirmative lobbies, that is lobbies that seek to affirm the wish to change gender, tending to see it only as a positive choice to be encouraged, acts as an ideological support for this simplification.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

