Parent Fury As Primary School Gives 4-Year-Olds Lessons On Transgenderism

Pupils at a primary school are to be given lessons in transgenderism to prepare them for a staff member’s male to female transition. The children, aged between four and 11 years old, are already being encouraged to accept his change through lessons on equality, diversity and life choices.

Parents of pupils at Over Primary School in Cambridgeshire have now received a letter from the school’s head-teacher, Mike Fish, informing them that as of Monday their children will begin officially to take part in lessons on transgenderism, the Daily Mail has reported. But Mr Fish admits that the school has already been paving the way for the lessons by teaching children in a more general sense about equality and diversity.

The lessons, which will include talks in assembly and discussions in class, are being introduced as the school’s lunchtime supervisor, Chris Kean, 38, is set to transition from a man to a woman within the next few months. Mr Kean already attends a gender identity clinic, and it appears that the school was well aware of his condition when he was hired in 2013, but failed to inform parents at the time.

It continues: “This is in line with our statutory duties under the Equality Act 2010 and also in line with the inclusive values and ethos of our school.

“We have also sought advice from CREDS, Cambridgeshire Race, Equality and Diversity Service, and have acquired new sources such as a range of picture books.”

But not all parents are happy about the letter, insisting that they should have been consulted far earlier in the process.

Mike Smith, a web designer and father of two girls, aged nine and five, said: “What we object to is our little one – who can’t even spell left and right yet – hasn’t been taught anything about sex education, but we have been told they are going to be teaching about transgender issues.

“I don’t have a problem with him doing this, but I would like to have been told before my children were told.”

His wife Jennifer agreed, saying: ‘I was angry about it, and I think a lot of people are.

“It is confusing enough in life for children as it is, and I just don’t understand how a four-year-old is going to understand that.”

But Mr Fish insists that he has done the right thing in presenting the lessons to parents as a fait accompli, saying: “I don’t think there is anything to consult on. Obviously the children needed to be prepared and informed rather than things just happening.”

Mr Fish commented: “We have shared the situation with parents and carers now to give plenty of time for discussion to be had about the way forward.

“I think our openness to this is clear in my original letter. As a school we always seek to work in partnership with parents and take on board their views.”

In addition to contacting CREDS, the school also consulted with Cambridgeshire charity SexYOUality, which offers advice and training on gender.

A spokeswoman said: “It is about talking to children and having a response about celebrating difference as opposed to being fearful.

“No child is born racist or homophobic and no child is born to have a fear of gender.

In his letter, Mr Fish makes it clear that the he believes educating children about transgenderism to be well within the scope of his schools obligations, telling parents: “I hope that we can take this as an opportunity to help prepare and educate children to live in our diverse British society and to develop values such as individual liberty, mutual respect and tolerance.”

Over Primary School is far from alone in teaching young children about transgenderism. Earlier this year Breitbart London revealed how Police and local government agencies across the country are distributing a “pioneering” document for “empowering teachers to encourage and support” transgenderism in schools at the “earliest stages” after a four-year-old child identified as transgender.

And in 2013, Green Party-led Brighton and Hove Council took it upon itself to launch a Trans Inclusion Schools Toolkit.

 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

