Parents’ Advocate: Loudoun County School Board Ignored Allegations of ‘Sodomy, Forced Fellatio, Sexual Assault’ of ‘9th Grade Girl’

“The first alleged sexual assault occurred to a ninth grade girl, allegedly, with a boy who is, I guess, ‘gender-fluid’ and was potentially wearing a skirt, [who] accessed the girls’ bathroom,” Prior said on Tuesday’s edition of SiriusXM’s Breitbart News Daily with host Alex Marlow.

He continued, “Now, this was the before they passed the [transgender bathroom] policy, so that wasn’t the reason why he necessarily did it, but the fact remains that he accessed the bathroom, and he’s been accused of sodomy, forced fellatio, and sexual assault.”



He went on, “This alleged sexual assault never came out, but even worse than that is that in covering this up, it appears that [Loudoun County School Board] simply transferred him to another school without disciplining him, despite the fact that he had been arrested, had an ankle monitor on, and was awaiting trial, and this individual allegedly sexually assaulted another individual at this new school a week and a half ago.”

Parents’ protective instincts are driving the effort to combat the Loudon County School Board’s political corruption, Prior held. He said the commitment of a parent to a child to is more powerful than a bureaucrat’s personal and political ambitions.

“When people go after parents’ kids with this kind of politically driven material and philosophies that could impact them for their whole life, parents are going to fight back,” he stated. “They want to fight fire with fire, but with parents, you’re looking at a fire that’s not going to burn out. It’s the fire of being a parent, and it’s going to be around a lot longer than the fire of these political amateurs who will move on to something else in a year or two years.”

Breitbart News Daily broadcasts live on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Eastern.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

