Planned Parenthood Ignores Doctors’ Warnings of Transgender Dangers to Children

Just ten days after the American College of Pediatricians (ACP) issued a stern statement warning of the dangers that gender ideology poses to children and adolescents, Planned Parenthood began a campaign on social media to “train the next generation of trans allies.”

.@tweetPPSFL is working hard to train the next generation of trans allies. Check them out: https://t.co/CDiCjNvaDt #TDoV

— Planned Parenthood (@PPFA) April 1, 2016

The recent ACP statement denied much of the politically correct rhetoric used by transgender activists, with doctors calling for a more sober and realistic look at what the idea of gender fluidity actually does to children.

While everyone is born with a biological sex, the doctors noted, their awareness of their sexuality develops over time and “may be derailed by a child’s subjective perceptions, relationships, and adverse experiences from infancy forward.” Helping them accept their objective sexual identity is one of the objectives of good parenting and intelligent education.

“A person’s belief that he or she is something they are not is, at best, a sign of confused thinking,” the physicians said. “When an otherwise healthy biological boy believes he is a girl, or an otherwise healthy biological girl believes she is a boy, an objective psychological problem exists that lies in the mind not the body, and it should be treated as such.”

Therefore, to treat this gender confusion as a good and normal thing, or to encourage it as Planned Parenthood is doing, constitutes an attack on children that can only mean serious problems for them in the future.

Thinking of oneself as belonging to a different sex than one’s biological sex is a psychological pathology known as “gender dysphoria,” the pediatricians said, which is “a recognized mental disorder.”

Pulling no punches, the doctors stated that conditioning children into believing a lifetime of chemical and surgical impersonation of the opposite sex is normal and healthful is “child abuse.”

This is the conditioning that Planned Parenthood and the LGBT lobby are trying to foist on parents and educators as somehow the right way to treat sexually confused children.

And yet, the doctors insist, what “compassionate and reasonable person would condemn young children to this fate knowing that after puberty as many as 88% of girls and 98% of boys will eventually accept reality and achieve a state of mental and physical health?”

What sort of person, indeed.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter   Follow @tdwilliamsrome


Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

