Poll: Voters Less Likely to Vote for a Candidate Who Supports Transgender Procedures for Minors

Voters are less likely to vote for a candidate in the 2022 midterm elections who supports transgender procedures and surgeries on minors, a Convention of States Action/Trafalgar Group survey released this week found.

The state of Florida eventually barred Medicaid from covering transgender procedures following a report concluding that such procedures are not “safe or effective” but “experimental and investigational.” Further, the Florida Board of Medicine last week voted to ban the mutilation of children with gender dysphoria.

Meanwhile, hospitals around the country have quietly supported the drastic leftist positions. Boston Children’s Hospital, for instance, came to the national spotlight over its Center for Gender Surgery, which described itself as offering a “full suite of surgical options for transgender teens and young adults.”

The hospital claimed it was “attacked” with the spread of so-called misinformation about its services to minors. However, after it came into the spotlight, it quietly updated its website to state that “all genital surgeries are only performed on patients age 18 and older.”  As Breitbart News noted at the time, that update was not present when Breitbart News first reported the story. In fact, a previous version of the hospital’s eligibility webpage stated that an individual had to be “at least 17 years old for vaginoplasty.” The latest update on the website, however, states that one “must be at least 18 years old for phalloplasty or metoidioplasty and for vaginoplasty.” Yet, those as young as 15 are still eligible for chest surgery if they meet other requirements as well.

This survey coincides with a Convention of States Action/Trafalgar Group survey released last month, which found the vast majority agreeing that children should “wait” until they are adults to undergo “gender-affirming” procedures.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

