Rapper: Transgender Community ‘Rebuking God’

Rapper and presidential candidate Waka Flocka Flame unloaded on the media’s portrayal of gender transitioning in an interview on radio station Power 105.1’s The Breakfast Club show Friday morning, calling the practice a rebuke to God.

During the interview, Flame, real name Juaquin James Malphurs, took aim at the most prominent figure to undergo gender transitioning in recent memory: former Olympic gold medalist Bruce Jenner, whose transition into “Caitlyn” Jenner sparked a now-infamous Vanity Fair cover story and a reality television series.

Flame also offered his thoughts on the larger transgender community:

“Women are afraid to be a wife and young males are afraid to be men. It’s not cool, they’re not marketing that. They don’t market families and husbands and wives no more. They’re marketing young girls, transgenders — they’re marketing evil, man. Evil is marketed. I ain’t got nothing against anybody’s preferences, but putting it on TV, that’s crazy, man.”

The rapper also revealed he has “got nothing against” Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump, although he wouldn’t want to see him in the White House. In April, Flame endorsed Hillary Clinton for president “because women can do the same sh*t men do.”

“I ain’t got nothing against him; Donald Trump is Donald Trump, but as a person, as a citizen, and as a human being, do I want to put a man in power that’s money hungry or who’s striving for people? Is your passion for people or is your passion for money? That man’s passion is for money and he ain’t wrong for that. He the best marketing man in America and he ain’t wrong for that. So you think he ain’t gonna market a campaign? That’s a walk in the park, man. If you’re not for the people, why should you be president?”

In April, Flame released a campaign video for his own entry into the presidential race, telling Rolling Stone the first thing he’d do in office is legalize marijuana.

Check out the entirety of Waka Flocka’s radio interview above.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

