Rowling Excluded from Jubilee Reading List Amid Attacks for Trans Views

Harry Potter author JK Rowling has been excluded from The Big Jubilee Read of 70 books, pioneered in part by the BBC, amid ongoing leftist attacks on her views on transgender ideology.

Rowling, an anti-Brexit, anti-Trump left-winger who once donated £1 million to the Labour Party, has in recent years lost her heroine status among her increasingly identity politics obsessed fellow leftists, in large part for her insistence that “sex is real” and that pushing transgender drugs on children and opening single-sex spaces to transgender individuals is dangerous.

Guardian ‘Person of the Year’ Poll Deactivated After J.K. Rowling Takes Leadhttps://t.co/Io4loFulkZ

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) December 29, 2021

“There was a big discussion about JK Rowling,” confessed Nasta, a professor of modern literature, in further comments to the newspaper of record.

“She was on the long-list with Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone. A space was cleared for someone equally as good but whose work was not as well-known. There were some very tricky decisions,” she claimed.

Other high-profile books which made the list are A Clockwork Orange, adapted into an iconic Stanley Kubrik film, The English Patient, adapted into an Oscar-winning film by sex offender Harvey Weinstein, and sci-fi classic The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.

Glaringly absent from the list along with Rowling is The Lord of the Rings, an implicitly conservative work by the traditional Catholic author JRR Tolkien, and arguably the most culturally impactful British fiction writing of modern times.

Tolkien’s contemporary and friend C.S. Lewis, another unselfconscious Christian, although an Anglican rather than a Roman Catholic, was also excluded from the list.

British University Puts Trigger Warning on ‘Harry Potter’ Bookhttps://t.co/SY7KZd793m

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 28, 2022

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

