Second Weightlifting Association Rejects Transgender Claims

The leading U.S. weightlifting association has formally excluded transgender males from its women’s division, marking another win for supporters of women’s athletics.

“We commend USA Powerlifting in their decision to preserve women’s sports,” said a statement from Beth Stelzer, founder of Save Women’s Sports. She continued:

Some strong women and men dug in their heels in defense of the truth. It is not fair to force women to compete with men. USAPL proved it honors and values women in this sport. We won’t forget it. I encourage women and men who support this decision to let the leadership know.

The decision came a week after another weightlifting association withdrew several awards for women given to a male weightlifter who is living as a woman.

I said, “Well, this is kind of embarrassing for me, because I don’t have the correct anatomy.” Still, I did my business while somebody watched me sitting on the toilet. And so that’s where that statement comes from, because I’m sure she told them, “Hey! This girl’s got a penis!”

Fewer than ten percent of men living as women undergo cosmetic surgery of the genitals. According to Outsports:

Gregory is a construction worker, and said she lacks the insurance coverage for bottom surgery. Although she is a lesbian, she said she isn’t in any hurry to get it.

“Perfect world, under perfect situations, probably, yes, I would have the surgery,” she said, “because I’m not that attached to that part of my anatomy. It doesn’t define who I am, but I don’t hate it. I don’t need it to be gone to be able to live my life and be whole. It’s more of a case that it’s inconvenient that it’s there.”

…

“One reason why I decided to continue lifting is because I wanted to give the middle finger to that stigma that you can’t be a strong, muscular female. I feel being strong and having muscles actually makes me feel sexy, and makes me feel more comfortable in my own skin.”



 As promised here is the full meet recap- what a day yesterday! One my best meets ever, not because of the records but because I was prepared, had a plan and flawlessly executed it! The records were just icing on the cake! – Friday night weighed in super light at 179.3lbs, 81.3kg! Over a kg under the class limit. – Squats, opener 130kg good lift. Opened a bit lighter than planned, was having issues with depth. Wanted to make sure I buried this one. 2nd attempt 138kg good lift. Chipped the VA State masters record here. Based on feels I knew I didn't have much left for thirds. 3rd attempt 142.5kg/ 314.2lbs good lift. Chipped the world masters record here. It felt much harder than it looked, I really don't think much more was there. – Bench, opener 100kg good lift. This was a world masters record. Couldn't get set up right and the pins we're a bit low. This was alot harder than I expected. 2nd attempt 102.5kg good lift. Broke my own record, took a hand off. This one felt the best out all three bench attempts. 3rd 105.5kg/ 232.6lbs good lift. Chipped the world open bench record. Got a fast press command luckily, this one again felt harder than it looked. Was struggling with tightness here, really don't think I had much left here as well. – DL opener 177.5kg good lift and world masters total record. This felt harder than I expected so I took a smaller jump for my 2nd. 2nd attempt 185kg good lift, world masters dl record. This felt really good. Starting to get in the groove. 3rd attempt 192.5kg/ 424.4lbs good lift and a 2.5kg PR! This didn't feel much different than 185kg but I didn't want to get greedy- the plan was 9 for 9 and I had a conservative PR. Felt great to end the strong! –  Again, awesome day! Totaled 440.5kg/ 971.1lbs with a 399.5wilks. Thanks again to the all people who supported me, helped me, and cheered me on! 27 white lights, excited to get back too training and prepping for the next meet! – @savvysavit #transisbeautiful#sharetheplatform#powerliftingwomen#upliftandliftheavy#richmondbalance#morefemalestrength#exodusstrength#lgbtqsports#sumoischeating#deadlifts#benching#squats#bemoreawesome

A post shared by  Mary Gregory (@75marylifts) on Apr 28, 2019 at 2:06am PDT

There is growing and organized opposition to the transgender demand that women accept men into their sports competitions.

Steltzer, for example, is a weightlifter who has rallied opposition to men’s intrusion of women’s sports. She said:

Those calling themselves transgender women are, in fact, men. The defense of biological reality is not bigotry; it is an attempt to champion women’s right to fair play and bodily privacy. If you don’t want men on your sports team or in your locker rooms and bathrooms, now is the time to speak up.

Connecticut girls break their silence on why it’s unfair to force them to compete against transgender students. https://t.co/IpPTiLFHGG pic.twitter.com/h5qlekYJYH

— The Daily Signal (@DailySignal) May 6, 2019

When I talk about a level playing field, it means we all started the same. How we end up- well, only one person can be the best. With transgender women we start out different and hope we end up the same(fair). Can there ever be a solution that pleases everyone? I don’t know…

— Martina Navratilova (@Martina) March 6, 2019

Watching @Martina helped me when I was young man coming to terms with my true self- she is one of my idols. I agree with @BillieJeanKing and think that there’s an opportunity for all of us to educate ourselves and listen to the science behind transgender women competing in sport. https://t.co/lkZ8pc0ZvQ

— Jason Collins (@jasoncollins98) February 20, 2019

But Democrats are nailing their colors to the transgender cause, despite the political risks for 2020. For example, nearly all Democrats endorse the Equality Act, which would require sports clubs to treat men as if they are women if the men say they have a female “gender identity.” Rep. Joe Kennedy, head of the transgender caucus, told Breitbart News that sports competitions should be for “human beings,” not for men or women.

Rep. Joe Kennedy is the top Democrat on transgender policy. He says no to sports competitions for only women & girls bc he wants competitions only for "human beings." The obvious result: Pres. Trump is the national champ for women's rights. Watch the video https://t.co/3GcE91R1sX

— Neil Munro (@NeilMunroDC) April 13, 2019

Polls show the transgender ideology is deeply unpopular, especially among women and parents. In 2017, former President Barack Obama told NPR that his promotion of the transgender ideology made it easier for Donald Trump to win the presidency.

Multiple polls show that most Americans wish to help and comfort people who think they are a member of the opposite sex, even as they also reject the transgender ideology’s claim that people’s legal sex is determined by their feeling of “gender identity,” not by biology. A U.K. survey shows a similar mix of sympathy for people who say they are transgender alongside lopsided opposition to the ideology.

The transgender movement is diverse, so its different factions have competing goals and priorities. It includes sexual liberationists, progressives, feminists who wish to blur distinctions between the two sexes, and people who glamorize the distinctions between the two sexes. It includes high-profile children, people who are trying to live as members of the opposite sex, troubled teenage girls trying to flee womanhood, and people trying to “detransition” back to their sex. It also includes men who demand sex from lesbians, masculine autogynephiles who say they are entitled to women’s rights, parents eager to support transgender claims, wealthy donors, politicians, political professionals, revenue-seeking drug companies, and medical service providers.

Transgender advocates claim that two million Americans say they are transgender to a greater or lesser extent. But very few people who describe themselves as transgender undergo cosmetic surgery of the genitals. Only about 4,118 Americans surgically altered their bodies in hospitals from 2000 to 2014 to appear like members of the opposite sex, according to a pro-transgender medical study. A Pentagon report commissioned by former Defense Secretary James Mattis said that “rates for genital surgery are exceedingly low- 2% of transgender men and 10% of transgender women.”

Yet the gender ideology is rapidly gaining power, aided by huge donations from wealthy individuals and medical companies. In Ohio, for example, in February, a judge forced parents of a teenage girl to give up custody so she can begin a lifetime of drug treatments and surgery that will allow her to appear as a male.

The progressive push to bend Americans’ attitudes and their male-and-female civic society around the idea of “gender identity” has already attacked and cracked many of the popular social rules that help Americans manage the cooperation and competition among and between complementary, different, and equal men and women.

These pro-gender claims have an impact on different-sex bathrooms, shelters for battered women, sports leagues for girls, hiking groups for boys, K-12 curricula, university speech codes, religious freedoms, free speech, the social status of women, parents’ rights in childrearing, children’s safety, practices to help teenagers, health outcomes, women’s ideals of beauty, culture and civil society, scientific research, prison safety, civic ceremonies, school rules, men’s sense of masculinity, law enforcement, military culture, and children’s sexual privacy.

Time Mag. endorses transgender activist who claimed that 'women' can have male sexual organs. Hmm. Does that mean progressives get to label lesbians as 'bigots' if they won't date biological men who claim they are living as women? https://t.co/BfuvY5w1xP

— Neil Munro (@NeilMunroDC) April 17, 2019

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

