Student in Wheelchair Criticized for Transphobia over Changing Student ID Name to ‘Lightning-Kachow-McQ’

A student at UCLA has come under fire from his transgender peers over an alleged abuse of the school’s new name-change policy after he opted to change the name on his student ID to “Lightning Kachow-McQ.”

The boundaries had to be tested and I can't believe this actually worked. My professors now legally have to call me this. 

Kachow boys pic.twitter.com/7TMQOwGJdW

— Tyler Roope (@tylerroope) October 26, 2017

UCLA student Tyler Roope is facing a serious backlash online after showing off photos of his new student identification card, which lists his name as “Lightning-Kachow-McQ.”

Roope wanted to test the boundaries of the new name-change system. ““The boundaries had to be tested and I can’t believe this actually worked,” he wrote in his tweet. “My professors now legally have to call me this.”

Students immediately condemned his decision on social media.

hey tyler!!! you remember when i was in the same BSA troop as you? i'm a trans person and this kind of "joke" affects me. someone real.

— Revel without a cause (@glittergist) October 28, 2017

Roope fired back at one critic with a photo of himself in his wheelchair, captioned only with the word, “kachow.” In another response, he wrote, “I did this because honestly lightning McQueen is red with 4 tires and so am I.”

Kachow pic.twitter.com/J8VNmDARNA

— Tyler Roope (@tylerroope) October 27, 2017

This is why trans folk, non binary folk, and international students have such a hard time being recognized by their real or chosen name. https://t.co/2hhb10j5Qy

— Turkey Mimi (@ahhmarachi) October 26, 2017

Roope eventually posted an apology. “I would like to apologize if this offended you or anyone for that matter,” he wrote. “However, I can assure you this isn’t at the expense of anyone.”

Hi! I would like to apologize if this offended you or anyone for that matter. However, I can assure you this isn't at the expense of anyone

— Tyler Roope (@tylerroope) October 28, 2017

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

