Sweden, Trans Kids, and the UK-US Souring: 3 Major Stories Where the Media Is Playing Catch-Up to Breitbart London

I’m used to being ahead of the times on a plethora of issues. But now we can actually say we’re ahead of the times — The Times newspaper, that is.

Three stories in the Sunday Times this weekend highlight how far the Murdoch paper has fallen, years behind Breitbart London reporting on a number of critical issues facing the Western world.

SWEDEN, MIGRANT GANG CRIME, AND NO GO ZONES

One of the first pieces of reportage on the matter, by our then-reporter, now Deputy Editor Oliver Lane, laid out how “[g]renade attacks in multicultural paradise Malmö are now so commonplace…” and how police were finding themselves overrun.

Lane reported from the city again just a few months later, detailing how “Rosengård, one of the most notorious ‘no-go-zone’ suburbs of Malmo” had become a place “where automatic weapons are used to settle gang disputes and ethnic Swedes dare not to tread”.

Breitbart London reported on a new police station, “built after the old station, an office in the estate’s sports centre, was found to be insufficiently bullet and bomb proof… the building is a colossal slate-grey fortress of sharp modern design”.

This week, that new police station was bombed, leading the Sunday Times to dispatch a journalist to the city to report on the situation.

Sweden is among the world’s safest, richest and best-run countries enjoying steady growth and rising employment. But it has been experiencing an unprecedented surge of gang shootings, bombings and sexual assaults.

In a country of 10m people, more than 320 shootings and dozens of bombings were reported in 2017, along with more than 110 murders and 7,226 rapes — a 10% increase on 2016. More than 36% of young Swedish women say they feel unsafe at night.

The authorities have admitted they are unable to investigate rape cases immediately because the resources are focused on gang crime. “We are forced to choose between two evils,” the police said.

The crime surge is mainly confined to so-called “areas of social exclusion”, a code for neighbourhoods such as Rosengard that are predominantly populated by immigrants. They are not classic ghettos — the infrastructure and services are better than in areas of central London — but these communities are plagued by high crime rates and unemployment.

In Malmo, where a fifth of the 340,000 inhabitants are under 18, children as young as 14 roam the streets with Kalashnikov assault rifles and bulletproof vests. The average age of gang members is 22, the vast majority of them hailing from migrant families.

Some of the statistics in the Times report were included in the “From Sweden, With Rape” chapter of my book No Go Zones: How Shariah Law is Coming to a Neighborhood Near You, which was a bestseller in 2017. At best, welcome to 2017, the Times. At worst, you’re at least three years behind.

TRANSGENDERISM IN SCHOOLS

While The Times has covered transgender stories over the past few years, Breitbart London led the way in dissecting the aims of parliamentary committees, the police services, as well as third sector organisations all aiming to promote transgenderism in schools.

In 2015, reporter Liam Deacon laid out how the plan was being implemented with the assistance of left-wing members of the Conservative Party. In 2016 we reported:

The Equalities Act of 2010 currently allows for the provision of single sex services, such as rape counselling of  women’s centres, via discrimination along biological lines. However, the report “recommends the act is amended”, to make it illegal to exclude biological men “who’s acquired gender has been recognised under the gender recognition act of 2004” from such services.

The authors also demand that the language of Equalities Act be updated, and be brought into line with latest politically correct lexical trends.

“The terms ‘gender reassignment’ and ‘transsexual’ in the Act are outdated and misleading; and may not cover wider members of the trans community. The protected characteristic should be amended to that of ‘gender identity’”, they state.

The report also claims that, “the NHS is failing in its legal duty under the Equality Act 2010” and should adopt a “zero tolerance” policy towards “transphobia”. It strongly and condemns waiting times for “essential” gender related cosmetic procedures as “completely unacceptable”.

“Trans people also have specific needs regarding Gender Identity Services, which provide: gender reassignment / confirmation treatment through Gender Identity Clinics (GICs); and the GIDS for children and adolescents”, the report states.

Today, the Sunday Times reported:

Children as young as 11 are being offered medical treatments that could leave some infertile, according to a psychologist at the only NHS clinic in England and Wales for children seeking to change their gender.

…

She said schools were rushing to allow pupils to change their names, uniforms and gender pronouns as soon as they “got a whisper that a child might be querying their identity” and this was not in every child’s best interests.

TRUMP, MAY, AND BRITAIN’S BREXIT-KILLING HYSTERIA

In late November 2017 I took a day trip to London from Washington, D.C. and warned the British public the establishment was wrecking Brexit (probably intentionally), using a spat between Prime Minister Theresa May and President Donald Trump to do so.

Actually, I first spotted the trend back in September, when I wrote an article entitled: ‘How May Plans to Blame Trump for Brexit’s Failure, and Why the Tory Party Needs to Remove Her NOW’. We followed up with this in December.



But wait! Now the Sunday Times has reported it, maybe people will finally pay some attention? Unlikely, since their reporting is behind a paywall. But how did it take them four months to say what we were saying in September?

Britain risks being sent to the back of the queue for a trade deal with the US, according to sources close to Donald Trump, who claim his relationship with Theresa May has “soured”.

The prime minister will attempt to “clear the air” in a hastily arranged meeting at the World Economic Forum in Davos this week after Trump ditched plans to visit Britain next month.

But those close to the US president claim he is still furious with the way he has been treated by the British government and warn his deteriorating relationship with May is likely to kill any prospect of a swift post-Brexit trade deal.

A source told The Sunday Times: ‘His position is that if Britain not interested in me, I am not interested in them.’

Another added: ‘A trade deal with the US might be No 1 on the UK’s list but it’s not top of his list of priorities. The relationship has soured. You don’t have to be a genius to see that.’

All this should probably come as no surprise, given the leftward drift of the Times newspaper. But they should at least give credit where it is due, like they used to.

Raheem Kassam is the Editor in Chief of Breitbart London and frequently makes predictions ahead of The Times on his Facebook and Twitter pages.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

