Ted Cruz: Texas Should Protect Children from Transgender Abuse

Texas legislators should protect children and youths from being rushed into life-altering “transgender” medical procedures, Sen. Ted Cruz tweeted Wednesday.

“The state of Texas should protect this child’s right to choose—as an informed, mature person—and not be used as a pawn in a left-wing political agenda,” he said.

A 7-year-old child doesn't have the maturity to make profound decisions like this. The state of Texas should protect this child's right to choose—as an informed, mature person—and not be used as a pawn in a left-wing political agenda. #ProtectJamesYounger

— Senator Ted Cruz (@SenTedCruz) October 24, 2019

Cruz’s intervention puts him on the side of children — and leaves Democrats in the position of defending child abuse, according to a U.K. left-wing opponent of the transgender ideology:

I really think it was a catastrophic error by American liberals and left wingers to leave the “let’s protect a 7-year-old child from being put on a path to sterility” side to the Republicans https://t.co/cgyMTevnwQ

— Helen Joyce (@HJJoyceEcon) October 24, 2019

Many Democrat-run states have set rules barring mental-health professionals from discouraging children or teenagers from quickly trying to change their unchangeable sex.

A growing number of teenagers and young adults have quietly revesed their claims to be members of the opposite sex. This “detransition” movement is gaining influence, especially in the United Kingdom, which was pushed into the transgender debates several years ago.

The response to my talk today was overwhelming. Thank you. So so much. https://t.co/JsIxhIY8rH

— Charlie Evans (@charlie_sci) October 19, 2019

 

Canadian 'tribunal' lawyer protects transgender ideology by deciding that women cosmeticians don't have to wax men's testicles … yet. That win likely disappears once the state licensing board makes the training mandatory. https://t.co/rEH4xsNVgx

— Neil Munro (@NeilMunroDC) October 22, 2019

 

 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

