Texas School District Suspends 'Transgendered' Male Elementary Teacher

HOUSTON, Texas–A fifth grade substitute teacher was suspended this week by the Lumberton Independent School District (LISD) after it was discovered the teacher is a “transgender” male. The teacher who was recently hired by the school district now must wait until Friday to find out if “she” will be terminated from employment.

“Within an hour of them being exposed or dealing with this, there’s a few issues here, I think these kids are too young for this issue, so that’s our main focus is, if it happens in older grades, high school, ok but too young for this,” Roger Beard, a 5th grade dad said.

TexasGOPVote political writer David Bellow told Breitbart Texas he found out about the story before it was picked up by the media because his brother is a student at the school. He posted a comment about it on his Facebook page and was overwhelmed by the nearly 200 comments he received.  After this, local news outlets picked up the story.

Parents seem to be concerned about the issue of Klug’s “gender identity” and the impact the exposure could have on their children.

David Bellow raises other concerns about Klug’s mental state in an article posted today on TexasGOPVote.com.  

“I looked [Klug] up on Facebook,” Bellows wrote, “and what I found was an emotionally disturbed and confused older man. He has not always wanted to be a woman. According to a note he posted on his Facebook page on July 7th, 2011 titled “How Much More Can I Take?” Kurt Klug was emotionally distraught and seemingly ready to give in with his life because of the pain of his female wife leaving him. The pain and distraught of his wife leaving him must have driven him to decide that he wanted to become a woman. From 2011 until now, Kurt changed his name to Laura Jane Klug and started dressing up like a woman and acting like a woman.”

According to Bellow, Heli Jones Wells also had a child in the class and she posted this comment on Facebook about the situation. 

Bellow’s article on TexasGOPVote also displays many of the other messages he received on the issue on his April 7th Facebook post which brought the issue to light.

According to the KFDM report, Texas law does not protect employees based on their “gender identity” or sexual orientation.

The LISD School Board will meet in a closed door session although a large crowd of concerned parents are expected to attend.

Follow Bob Price on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX 

This article has been updated.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

