The Nation’s First Transgender Federal Candidates Win Primaries in Utah, Colorado

With transgender mania in full swing across the progressive half of the nation, two transgender candidates have won their respective Democrat primaries to become the first transgender candidates to appear on a general election ballot from one of the nation’s two major parties.

According to The Salt Lake Tribune, Misty K. Snow has won the Democrat primary for U.S. Senate from Utah to become the first transgender candidate ever to become a party nominee for the U.S. Senate..

In the final primary results, Snow beat the closest Democrat opponent by nearly ten points.

Snow, a 30-year-old grocery store clerk from Salt Lake City, will face incumbent Republican Senator Mike Lee in November. But the first transgender U.S. Senate candidate faces an uphill battle to win the seat as Senator Lee holds a major polling advantage of 51 to 37 percent.

Misty K. Snow isn’t the only transgender candidate on a ballot this year. Also winning a primary was a different transgender Misty from Colorado.

The two new transgender candidates will be under intense pressure to champion the transgender ideology, which says government should require every American to validate every person’s choice of created “gender identity.”

For example, an Oregon law recently allowed a jury to award $60,00 t0 a transgender teacher because other teachers declined to use the teacher’s preferred pronoun, which is “they” rather than “him” or “her.” New York City has also establish similar forced-speech rules. The ideology ask says government must ignore and often dismantle many civic rules that have evolved to help the two distinct sexes — men and boys, women and girls — meet their legally equal, but different and complementary, needs.  For example, the transgender ideology demands that single-sex bathrooms and locker rooms — including those in K-12 schools — must opened up to people of the opposite sex, regardless of age, and without any verification of created “gender identity.”

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail.com.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

