The BBC Should Listen to Seinfeld and Ignore Gender Quotas



I like the series, and I actually did notice that Seinfeld had predominantly white men featuring – but I didn’t care. I know enough about Seinfeld’s pedigree to know that he was simply going after whatever talent was readily available. 

However, someone at the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) obviously missed the entire interview and resulting bajillion articles that were swimming around the web shortly afterwards. How else could one explain the fact that the BBC is now pledging to enforce gender diversity on its panel discussion shows?

So no more will there just happen to be all men on the panel, because those were the comedians and celebrities available or relevant for that week. In the same regard, I guess there could never be an all female panel, either (good luck challenging that one, though).

Instead, Danny Cohen, the head of BBC Television, has stated, “We’re not going to have any more panel shows with no women on them. It’s not acceptable.”

Following Cohen’s logic, presumably he’ll shortly be enforcing one member of the panel to be transgender, one to be gay, one to be lesbian, one to be Pakistani, one to be black… oh, we’ve run out of space on the panel you say? Bugger it. Cancel the show. It’s unacceptable! 

Intern: “Er… no one seems to be available for the taping on Friday.”

Producer: “What, no one at all?!” 

Intern: “Well, no one with, you know… *makes boobies gesture*.”

Producer: “Well, offer more money. Maybe we can pay for their cab too? Train fare? Flight? Do what you have to do. If we have another cock and balls on the show, we could get cancelled!” 

The BBC would do well to take a leaf out of Jerry Seinfeld’s book. No, I don’t mean painting make-up over Jason Alexander and forcing him into a hastily cobbled together Seinfeld-esque script (although that would probably get more viewers than a lot of BBC shows).

No, instead, the Beeb would be better off focusing on what exactly is funny, or entertaining, rather than what sort of genitalia their panellists happen to have dangling (or not) between their legs.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

