Transgender Tory Accuses Colleague of Hate Crime For ‘Misgendering’ Him

A Bolton councillor who transitioned from male to female ten years ago has complained to the police and Bolton Council after a fellow councillor used the pronoun “he” to refer to him.

Labour Cllr Guy Harkin repeatedly misgenered me in tonight’s Council meeting, while going off on a personal attack against me.

— Zoë Kirk-Robinson (@ZoeKirkRobinson) August 24, 2016


I can’t say I’m surprised at his behaviour but I had hoped that Bolton’s leading political group wasn’t transphobic. https://t.co/yf52jIvmJs

— Zoë Kirk-Robinson (@ZoeKirkRobinson) August 24, 2016


I will be calling on Bolton Labour Group to denounce his behaviour. Bolton does not welcome transphobia. https://t.co/djCE6hg0pN

— Zoë Kirk-Robinson (@ZoeKirkRobinson) August 24, 2016

Speaking to Bolton News, Cllr Kirk-Robinson said: “This obviously was a shock, and not a pleasant one. I expected better of a member of the Council.

“For someone in the highest public forum of the town to feel transphobia was acceptable is shocking — It is not acceptable in Bolton — it shouldn’t be acceptable anywhere.”

He added: “Bolton has a problem with hate crime and for Cllr Harkin to engage in a personal attack against me in this matter only serves to legitimise transphobia in the eyes of the average bigot — which makes life harder for all LGBT people.”

In a video blog, the Conservative councillor added: “If I’m truthful, it hurt a lot. The guy had no reasons to ever suggest that I was male, he has never met me as a male.

A campaigner for gay and transgender rights, Cllr Kirk-Robinson is a “hate crime ambassador” as part of a local police-council partnership.

Confirming that he had reported the incident, Cllr Kirk-Robinson added: “The incident has been referred to Greater Manchester Police, and therefore is now out of my hands. As a hate crime ambassador, I always urge people to report hate crime when it occurs and I will continue to do so.”

Cllr Harkin, 69, insists that the use of ‘he’ to refer to Cllr Kirk-Robinson was accidental, however, and that it was not meant as a personal attack.

Speaking to PinkNews, he said: “I was utterly unaware of this slip of the tongue until it was pointed out to me the day after the meeting.

He added: “I am told I used ‘he’ instead of the appropriate ‘she’ twice, not repeatedly, or someone would surely have raised a point of order – and I would have apologised there and then.”

According to Cllr Kirk-Robinson, Bolton Council is taking the allegation “seriously”.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

