Transgender Ideology Has ‘Corrosive Impact’ on Society, Claims Study

The mainstreaming of transgender ideology has had a “corrosive impact” on British society and has had a negative influence on the wellbeing of children, a study from think tank Civitas has found.

“Previously authoritative institutions now lack confidence in their own ability to lead and look to the transgender community as a victimised group that can act as a source of moral authority. However, this, in turn, erodes sex-based rights and undermines child protection,” Dr Williams wrote.

“People in positions of power within the realms of media, education, academia, police, social work, medicine, law, and local and national government have been prepared to coalesce behind the demands of a tiny transgender community,” she added.

Drag Queen Story Time is coming to a primary school near you.https://t.co/3gMLoXy5qB

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) June 25, 2017

The study noted that the pervasiveness of transgenderism has resulted in a significant rise in the number children” ‘who experience difficulties in the development of their gender identity'” being referred to the Tavistock — the UK’s national clinic specialising in treating children.

“The number of 13-year-olds referred for help in the past year rose by 30 per cent to 331, while the number of 11-year-olds was up by 28 per cent on the previous year. The youngest patients were just three years old. Three-quarters of children who want help to change their gender are now girls – the highest proportion ever recorded,” the study found.

Dr Williams pointed out that puberty blockers are “frequently presented to young people as a straightforward and temporary solution to the apparent ‘problem’ of their changing body”, despite the fact that the drugs “may cause irreparable harm to a child’s developing body and have a detrimental impact on future fertility”.

School Apologises After 11-Year-Olds Told to Define Transgender, ‘Hardcore Pornography’ as Homework https://t.co/t7W6AlHAFG

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 19, 2020

The study also went on to decry the impact the transgender movement has had on the public discourse in Britain.

“The expansion of transgender rights has gone hand in hand with an expansion of state and institutional (both public and private) regulation of speech and behaviour. This highlights a significant difference between today’s transgender activists and the gay rights movement of a previous era,” Dr Willams said.

As opposed to the gay rights movement, which Williams argued sought freedom from the state, the transgender movement “calls for recognition and protection from the state in the form of intervention to regulate the behaviour of that outside of the identity group”.

Amazon has blocked advertisements for a forthcoming book that questions the transgender "craze" among teenage girls. https://t.co/yUgBR4n0uP

— Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) June 22, 2020

 Follow Kurt on Twitter at @KurtZindulka

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

