Transgender Activists ‘Beats Up’ Woman Attending Meeting on Gender

A biologically male transgender activist has physically assaulted a woman in central London because she attempted to attend a meeting about transgender issues.

Activists said they wanted to “fuck… up” Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminists (TERFs) before the event and pictures on social media showed Ms. MacLachlan with a bruised face.

https://twitter.com/isacsohn/status/908053042884472834

She explained how she was trying to film the intimidation, adding: “Suddenly some kid in a hoodie ran past me and tried to knock the camera out of my hand but it was attached to a loop round my wrist so he came back at me, I think trying to get my camera.

“I was determined not to let him get my camera and I was also terrified that my glasses were going to get broken because then I wouldn’t be able to see. I don’t remember much else except that somehow I ended up on the ground and it felt like a few of them were punching and kicking me and it seemed to last for ever but I guess it was just a few seconds.”

A video also surfaced on Youtube, purporting to show the violence.



The meeting was initially due to take place at New Cross Learning, Lewisham, South London, but had to be moved after students and transgender activists bombarded the venue with calls and messages.

The venue said, “the potential risks to the library, volunteers, public, and building are beyond our risk appetite,” in a statement.

https://twitter.com/TerrorizerMir/status/907946822492151810

The speakers included Miranda Yardley, a ‘transsexual’ who is critical of some transgender activists, Dr. Julia Long, a sociology lecturer at Anglia Ruskin University who campaigns for abused women, and Venice Allan, a mother and activist.

“Show up for our Trans sisters and disrupt the debate. Bring posters, bring guitars, bring drums, bring your Vuvuzela (if you have one) and your voices, and MAKE SOME NOISE TO DROWN OUT THESE NASTY TERFS BC TRANS WOMEN ARE WOMEN AND THAT IS NOT UP FOR DEBATE.”

One transgender and “anti-fascist” activist, Tara Flik Wood, posted threats on the group, reading: “Any idea where/if this is happening. I wanna fuck some terfs up, they are no better than fash.”

Dissapointed that @newxlearning is hosting a "debate" that will only serve to increase transmisoginy. Solidarity with our trans sisters! pic.twitter.com/gwIOoy1iWu

— Sisters Uncut (@SistersUncut) September 11, 2017

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

