Transgender Wrestler Receives Testosterone Treatments, Wins Girls State Wrestling Championship

Mack Beggs, a 17-year-old transgender boy from Texas, has won the Texas state girls wrestling championship. That title caps off an undefeated season for Beggs, who went 57-0.

Many who believe that were heard from in the gym after Beggs defeated Chelsea Sanchez for the state title, with several fans booing as Beggs celebrated her victory. To Beggs’ credit, according to her family, the 17-year-old would rather face boys in wrestling competition. However, at issue is a Texas law which states that competitors must wrestle against the gender listed on their birth certificate.

Still, Baudhuin doesn’t blame Beggs personally for the controversy. Instead, he blames the UIL policy. Baudhuin told The Blaze, “The more I learn about this, the more I realize that she’s just trying to live her life and her family is, too. She’s being forced into that position. Who knows, through discovery we may find out that’s not the case. But every indication is, the way the winds are going now, the blame rests with the UIL and the superintendents.”

While no law can account for every situation, the UIL doesn’t appear willing to change its policy. UIL Deputy Director Jamey Harrison said, “Ninety-five percent of the school superintendents in Texas voted for the rule as it was proposed, which was to use birth certificates. So any rule can be reconsidered, but … given the overwhelming support for that rule, I don’t expect it to change anytime soon.”

While the majority of Americans would probably agree with the 95% of superintendents who voted for the birth certificate rule, some special exemption needs to exist for females taking testosterone. If a female wrestler were to test positive for steroids, or some other type of performance enhancing drug, there’s no way they would be allowed to participate in competitive sports. Testosterone, athletically, constitutes a performance enhancer.

Also, putting Beggs and all the sensitivity towards LGBT aside for a moment, think about the safety of the other competitors. As UFC analyst Joe Rogan said on Twitter, “wrestling is a combat sport and taking testosterone competing against girls who aren’t taking it is completely unfair and dangerous.”

Sensitivity to someone’s “transition,” or drawing hard lines on gender, should never result in a complete disregard for the safety and well-being of other people. The whole law doesn’t need change, it merely requires nuance and out-of-the-box thinking. Something we’re unfortunately very bad at.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter: @themightygwinn

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

