Transgender Promoting Council Asks Children Aged 4 To Choose ‘Gender Identity’

Four-year-old infants in Brighton are being asked to “choose” the gender they “identify” with before they even start school.

In 2013, Brighton & Hove City Council launched a “Trans Inclusion Schools Toolkit” encouraging schools and parents to “support transgender and gender questioning” children, which “may include taking hormones and or having gender reassignment surgeries”.

The city has one of the largest transgendered communities in the country, and its local Member of Parliament is from the Green party, which recently announced they are now calling women non-men to avoid offending the transgendered.

“We recognise that not all children and young people identify with the gender they were assigned at birth or may identify as a gender other than male or female, however the current systems (set nationally) only record gender as male or female,” the letter said.

Adding: “Please support your child to choose the gender they most identify with.”

It comes after the Office of the Children’s Commissioner sent a survey for pupils aged 13 to 18 at every school in Brighton, asking them to choose a gender with which they identify.

Emma Daniel, a councillor and head of Brighton’s equalities committee, defended the local government’s transgender agenda.

Anne Longfield, Children’s Commissioner for England, appeared to support the council. “We want to know how gender matters to young people. How does it affect their lives and what do they want to change?” she said.

One shocked local mother, who asked to remain anonymous for fear of being attacked by transgender activists, told Brighton & Hove News that she was worried that confusing her child with transgender propaganda could have harmful ramifications later in life.

“…Children at school should be free to develop their identity, celebrate their achievements and accept their bodies. The little boy who wants to wear a dress should be allowed to do that without being pathologised, diagnosed, and treated.

“Research has shown that 80% of children who experience gender dysphoria as children DO NOT transition in later life but instead are more likely to be gay.

Adding: “Treating children as though they are adults is a dangerous approach from a safeguarding point of view. They are not adults – let them enjoy the innocence and creativity of their childhood.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

