Transgender Male Athletes Fear ‘Ridicule’ For Seeking Slots in Olympic Women’s Races

Two male British athletes are competing for slots in women’s athletic events at this year’s Olympics in Rio de Janeiro — under transgender rules which allow genetic males to switch into women’s lanes.

Johnston says both athletes have fully completed their gender reassignment and are now “competing in their assigned gender.”

The International Olympics Committee (IOC) has ruled that transgender athletes do not have to be fully surgically transformed to compete under their self-assigned gender identity. In new guidelines published last year, the IOC stated, “To require surgical anatomical changes as a precondition to participation is not necessary to preserve fair competition and may be inconsistent with developing legislation and notions of human rights.”

Under those rules, genetic-men with vestigial male genitalia — although hobbled by estrogen hormone shots — may become a common sight in on the prize stands at formerly women’s meets.

Many athletes say it is unfair to allow athletes who are anatomically male to compete against women. That’s because men have the innate superior physical advantages. Men often have stronger muscle mass and greater lung capacity making them faster and stronger than their naturally female competitors.

Similarly, in a recent Mixed Martial Arts bout female MMA fighter Tamikka Brents was thoroughly defeated — and injured — by MMA opponent Fallon Fox (above) who was born a man but was competing as a transgender female fighter.”

“I’ve never felt so overpowered in my life,” Brents said after her quick defeat. “I’ve fought a lot of women and have never felt the strength that I felt in a fight as I did that night. I can’t answer whether it’s because she was born a man or not, because I’m not a doctor. I can only say I’ve never felt so overpowered ever in my life, and I am an abnormally strong female.”

After a barely two-minute fight, Brents received a concussion and a broken eye socket at the hands of her far stronger, anatomically male opponent who was fighting as a female.

In general, transgender advocates say governments should require everybody to validate every person’s choice of created “gender identity.” The ideology’s claim that government must enforce a new right to “gender identity” also means that the government must ignore and often dismantle many civic rules that evolved to help the two distinct sexes — men and boys, women and girls — meet their legally equal, but different and complementary, needs, such as single-sex bathrooms and single-sex sports leagues.

In the United States, for example, Obama is pushing school to end sexual privacy in K-12 bathrooms, and it is now an offense in Washington State to ask a man in a woman’s bathroom if he thinks he is male or female. Oregon law recently allowed a jury to award $60,000 t0 a transgender teacher because other teachers declined to use the teacher’s preferred pronoun, which is “they” rather than “him” or “her.” New York City has also establish similar forced-speech rules.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail.com.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

