Transgender Reporter Zoey Tur Triples Down on Threats Against Ben Shapiro

Transgender Inside Edition reporter Zoey Tur tripled down Tuesday on threats he made against Breitbart Senior Editor-at-Large Ben Shapiro during a Dr. Drew-hosted panel on HLN last week, when the reporter said he would send Shapiro “home in an ambulance.”

When Shapiro pointed out that anyone with biologically male cells and male appendages is indeed a male, a visibly angered Tur placed a hand on Shapiro’s neck and warned, “You better cut that out now, or you’ll go home in an ambulance.”

After the taping, Shapiro alleged that Tur further threatened him, saying, “I’ll see you in the parking lot.”

In a radio interview with KFI AM 640’s Bill Carroll on Tuesday, Tur tripled down on the threats, saying that he had, in fact, threatened Shapiro on the panel.

“I came so close to putting [Shapiro] over my knee and spanking him,” Tur told Carroll. The reporter said he was merely using a “love hold” when he grabbed Shapiro’s neck live on air during the panel discussion.

“Was it forceful? I don’t know, that’s relative…” Tur said.

When Carroll asked whether Tur intended to threaten Shapiro, the reporter hesitated before answering in the affirmative.

“No. Well, maybe I was. Yeah, probably,” Tur responded. “I had had enough… He’s a wimp, he’s a wimp… He almost got spanked, what do you expect?”

Tur also leveled anti-Semitic insults at Shapiro during the interview with Carroll, saying Shapiro “comes from a very misogynistic cult anyway, where women are treated differently, they’re not allowed to touch men.”

“So maybe that’s the battery,” Tur suggested. “Maybe a woman touched him, and put her hand on his shoulder or the back of his neck, and that’s prescribed in the ultra-Orthodox religion, maybe that’s the battery he’s talking about.”

Jewish law does not prohibit a man from touching another man.

Shapiro filed a police report with the Los Angeles Police Department alleging battery against Tur on Sunday morning.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

