Trans Sex Criminals Can Go on Female Wards, NHS Hospitals Told

The health secretary has ordered a review of NHS guidance after it was revealed that three hospital trusts in England advised that biologically male sex offenders who “self-identify” as women could be admitted onto female-only wards after a risk assessment.

Such accommodation is reliant on so-called self-identification, rather than beginning the legal process to changing gender, which includes medical reports demonstrating a diagnosis for gender dysphoria or surgery to change the appearance of sexual characteristics, having lived as the opposite sex for at least two years, and expressing the intention to live as the other sex for the rest of their life.

According to documents seen by the newspaper, trusts have told hospitals in Devon, Nottinghamshire, and Oxford that examining criminal history should be included in the risk assessment of placing biological males in women’s wards, but they do not state that a record for sex offences could be a bar to entry.

Devon Partnership NHS Trust says people “will be admitted based on the gender which they identify as at the point of admission” rather than the legal definition of gender, and that they “must be able to use the facilities of their preferred gender while admitted. This includes shower rooms, toilets and single sex lounges.”

Indicating a possible admission for those patients with a history of sexual offences, Devon stated: “Where a transgender woman is admitted and has a history of sex offending, decisions regarding risk should include consideration of whether they are being prescribed anti-libidinal medication that would be expected to reduce sexual risk.”

Tory Govt Placing Trans Women in Female Only Prisons Is Lawful, UK High Court Rules https://t.co/qdEoDtruqa

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 3, 2021

However, one nurse who spoke anonymously to The Telegraph said that risk assessments of patients, including those who are known to have a history of sexual violence, were not always completed because staff were too busy.

“The public believe that we have single-sex spaces for our most vulnerable, our mothers, our grandmothers, but it is simply not true. NHS wards are replicating what is happening in jails.”

The nurse was referencing the phenomena in recent years of male criminals identifying as women, reportedly in order to have their own cells and be allowed to shower alone, or even requesting to be placed in female prisons.

In 2019, the HM Chief Inspector of Prisons for England and Wales revealed that one in 50 adult male prisoners identified as transgender. A 2017 report from feminist charity Fair Play for Women claimed that at least 41 per cent of transgender inmates are convicted sex offenders, compared to 17 per cent of the prison population as a whole.

In one widely-publicised case, transgender Karen White, born Stephen Wood, had previous convictions for indecent assault and gross indecency involving children but was placed in a women’s prison despite being an intact male due to identifying as a woman.

Former Prisons Minister Reveals Trans Inmates Have Raped Female Staff https://t.co/bhhwypOwzY

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) April 14, 2020

The Telegraph report also claimed to have revealed the culture of fear that NHS staff in such hospitals work under, with some claiming they will not raise safeguarding issues concerning transgender patients in single-sex wards, not only because they are “fearful of discipline of censure” and job losses, but also because they “in some cases risk being charged with a criminal offences”, according to one nurse.

Disturbing phenomena also uncovered by the newspaper was that some trusts labelled patients who felt uncomfortable sharing wards with people of the same biological sex as transphobic, comparing them to racists, and ordering staff to report them to the police for hate crimes. One hospital had until recently even advised withdrawing treatment if a woman in their care objected to intact men being in their wards.

“One organisation is suggesting that any woman who objects to a male on a single-sex ward is put in seclusion, as in a psychiatric setting,” Dr Lucy Griffin had told MPs and peers.

In apparent response to the reports on Tuesday, Health Secretary Sajid Javid ordered a review into NHS guidance on transgender sex offenders in women’s wards.

“All patients, including women and transgender people, should feel comfortable and safe in hospital. It’s not wrong to look at whether guidance is right, or how it’s being applied, to reassure everyone. I’ve asked the Department for Health and Social Care for fresh advice,” Mr Javid said.

Transgender Child Rapist Freed Despite Attacking Prison Guards After They Took Her Shaving Razors https://t.co/xXpMwElWwb

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 6, 2021

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

