Trump’s Deputies Help Girl Athletes Block Transgender Demands

President Donald Trump’s Justice Department (DOJ) is backing a lawsuit by three female athletes who say their sex-based Title IX rights are violated by the forced inclusion of “transgender” males in their high school competitions.

The DOJ’s statement says the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference (CIAC) rewriting athletic qualifications undermines the protections granted women through the federal Title IX law. The statement reads:

Title IX is a federal civil rights law passed as part of the Education Amendments of 1972. This law protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities that receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states that:

“No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.”

The DOJ’s statement addresses why the Connecticut rules discriminate against female athletes:

Title IX and its implementing regulations prohibit discrimination solely “on the basis of sex,” not on the basis of transgender status, and therefore neither require nor authorize CIAC’s transgender policy. To the contrary, CIAC’s construction of Title IX as requiring the participation of students on athletic teams that reflect their gender identity would turn the statute on its head.

The conservative advocacy group American Principles Project (APP), which has worked in recent years to fight against the movement to allow biological men to compete against biological females in sports, issued a statement on Thursday.

“What a difference an election can make,” Terry Schilling, executive director of APP, said in the statement. “Just four years ago, the Obama administration was threatening schools with a loss of funding if they failed to allow biological males to participate in girls’ sports.”

“This was total insanity, and yet it unfortunately spread to many states like Connecticut, which adopted policies eliminating a fair playing field for women athletes,” Schilling said. “Now, high school girls are being forced to sue in order to preserve their rights under Title IX.”

APP also announced it would pay for ads on this topic during the 2020 presidential election season.

The case is Soule vs. Connecticut Association of Schools, Inc., No. 3:20-cv-00201 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut.

Follow Penny Starr on Twitter.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

