UK NHS Patient Asks for Female Nurse for Cervical Smear, Gets Tattooed Trans Man With Stubble

A woman who requested a female nurse for an intimate procedure was given an “obviously male” member of staff with stubble and tattoos, who claimed to be a transsexual.

When she pointed out what she thought was a mistake, the nurse told her off: “My gender is not male. I’m a transsexual.”

In a formal letter of complaint, she objected that “People who are not comfortable about this are presented as bigots and this is … kind of how I was made to feel about it.”

Letting people legally change gender with no checks could let biological men into women's sports, toilets, refuges. https://t.co/WsHdGrkYsU

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 23, 2017

The incident raises concerns about the governing Tory Party’s proposed Gender Recognition Act, spearheaded by lesbian Education Secretary Justine Greening, which seeks to “de-medicalise” the gender transition process and allow men to legally change gender with a simple self-declaration.

Pronoun Wars: Top private school changes ‘God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen’ lyrics to ‘Gentlefolk’, because "its original lyrics long predate modern progress in gender equality". #Woke https://t.co/b4LI0EwFGh

— Jack Montgomery ن (@JackBMontgomery) December 30, 2017

The Central and North West London NHS Foundation Trust, which manages the clinic where this particular incident took place, conceded that its nurse had self-identified as a woman, but that they had not been employed on that basis.

“We apologised to this patient for the recording error and because the staff member accepted they didn’t manage the situation appropriately; the patient needed to feel listened to. Trust policy is to consider seriously all requests for clinicians of a particular gender,” the trust said in a statement.

The patient is fortunate to have received an apology, as police guidance could easily have allowed the trust to report her complaint as an anti-trans “hate crime“, or at least a “non-crime hate incident“.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

