Utah’s Republican (?) Governor Vows to Veto Trans Sports Ban

The Republican governor of Utah has pledged to veto a bill requiring athletes to compete in sports according to their birth gender.

Governor Spencer Cox says he will veto a transgender sports ban passed by the state legislature on Friday. Without Cox’s signature, the law protecting female athletes from having to compete against males identifying as females will likely fail.

The governor specifically addressed trans athletes whom he feels have been unfairly thrust into the middle of a contentious political debate.

“I just want them to know that it’s gonna be okay. We’re gonna work through this,” Cox said.



Transgender swimmer Lia Thomas (2nd L) of Penn University and transgender swimmer Iszac Henig (L) of Yale pose with their medals at the 2022 Ivy League Women’s Swimming & Diving Championships at Harvard University. (JOSEPH PREZIOSO/AFP via Getty Images)

The governor’s planned veto comes after months of tense, behind-the-scenes negotiations between lawmakers and activists as they attempted to craft legislation that would give schools a framework for dealing with athletes who identify as members of the opposite sex.

Cox was aware of and involved with the negotiations throughout the process. When the talks between social conservatives and transgender activists began, the aim was to create a state commission or panel that would look at issues of transgender sports involvement on a case-by-case basis, according to the Associated Press. However, when the legislature passed a law on Friday that included an amendment banning males identifying as females from girls’ sports, the governor announced he would veto the measure.

Lawmakers representing social conservatives defended the amendment by saying the rule would ensure fairness protect the safety of female athletes.

The sheer domination in this race (and significant progress in rankings) highlights the physical advantages biological men have when competing directly against biological women. Everyone has a place in sport, but this level of unfairness to be allowed is mind-boggling  https://t.co/KQhrOzRAHm pic.twitter.com/ytlTpaXdtL

— Danielle (Nolli) Waterman (@nolli15) February 19, 2022

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

