WATCH: Trans Punk Rocker Burns Birth Certificate Onstage to Protest North Carolina Bathroom Law

Laura Jane Grace, transgender lead singer of punk rock bank Against Me!, set fire to her birth certificate during a concert Sunday at the Motorco Music Hall in Durham, North Carolina to protest the state’s recent passage of its so-called transgender “bathroom” law.

I guess gender really is over since @LauraJaneGrace said goodbye to gender! #genderisover pic.twitter.com/EHXZJbMnM2

— kathryn wymer (@kwymer6) May 16, 2016

Grace’s on-stage spectacle and Against Me!’s performance was in protest of North Carolina’s HB2, which mandates that men and women use the public restroom in accordance to the sex assigned to them at birth.

“The way you affect change is by empowering the grassroots movement” is “by empowering the people,” Grace, who came out as transgender in 2012, shouted at the crowd.

It was suggested to me in an interview that we might cancel our May 15th show in Durham, NC because of the states HB2 bill. Hell no!  (1/2)

— Laura Jane Grace (@LauraJaneGrace) March 30, 2016

It was suggested to me in an interview that we might cancel our May 15th show in Durham, NC because of the states HB2 bill. Hell no!  (1/2)

— Laura Jane Grace (@LauraJaneGrace) March 30, 2016

Grace reaffirmed the band’s decision to play North Carolina in an interview with Buzzfeed.

“I think the real danger with HB2 is that it creates a target on transgender people specifically,” Grace told the website. “When you feel targeted as a trans person, the natural inclination is to go into hiding. But visibility is more important than ever; to go there and have the platform of a stage to stand on and speak your mind and represent yourself.”



 Set fire to my birth certificate tonight onstage in North Carolina… BURN GENDER BURN! GENDER INFERNO!!!! Thanks to all that came out to the show

A post shared by  Laura Jane Grace (@laurajanegrace) on May 15, 2016 at 9:11pm PDT

As Breitbart News previously reported, Against Me! plan to donate the proceeds from their Sunday show toward efforts to repeal HB2.

The band’s sold-out show in North Carolina came on the heels of a high stakes legal battle between the state’s governor and the Obama Department of Justice.

After the March 23rd passage of HB2, North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory sued the U.S. Justice Department in defense of the law, asking the federal courts to decide its fate.

The Justice Department countered and filed its own lawsuit on the grounds that the Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act is in violation of federal civil rights laws.

Since its passage, North Carolina’s Public Facilities Privacy and Security Act has caused several progressive entertainers and businesses to boycott that state in protest of the legislation.

Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

