Watch: Parents March on Disneyland to Protest Studio’s Woke LGBTQ+ Agenda for Children

Hundreds of concerned parents and activists converged on Disneyland in Anaheim, California, Wednesday evening to protest the Walt Disney Co.’s woke agenda that includes targeting children with radical gay and transgender ideology.

The peaceful protest was organized by Hold the Line, the Christian activist group that spearheaded last week’s demonstration at Disney corporate headquarters in Burbank. On Wednesday, they were joined by members of Turning Point USA, the conservative non-profit headed by Charlie Kirk.

Hundreds of people outside of, Disneyland now chanting boycott Disney!! pic.twitter.com/ZjZIUupHCQ

— Emri Moore (@emrimooretv) April 14, 2022

Stoked that our friends at @TPUSA will be joining us tomorrow to rumble at Disneyland.#HoldTheLine pic.twitter.com/bbSeKLbhU8

— Sean Feucht (@seanfeucht) April 12, 2022

Hold the Line leader Sean Feucht said the group has gathered 50,000 signature for a petition demanding Disney stop trying to indoctrinate children.

Disney cast members also spoke out against the company’s political lurch to the left.

BREAKING: Disneyland cast member says she can “no longer stand” for what Disney is doing and pushing on kids at the anti Disney protest “Hold the Line” in front of Disneyland Anaheim CA | @TPUSA

MORE: https://t.co/ZnHGJL6DIAMORE: https://t.co/kPoVzEnlQx pic.twitter.com/OxuTpC2vcv

— Drew Hernandez (@DrewHLive) April 14, 2022

Last week, the group rallied hundreds of protestors in front of Disney corporate headquarters in Burbank.

BREAKING: Protesters gather in front of the Disney HQ in Burbank CA chanting “BOYCOTT DISNEY!” pic.twitter.com/hKVp2ufGBQ

— Drew Hernandez (@DrewHLive) April 7, 2022

Recently leaked internal videos show Disney leaders speaking candidly about their plans to incorporate radical LGBTQ ideology into its TV shows and movies for children. In company meetings, they spoke about embracing transgenderism and introducing more “queer” characters into Disney content.

Disney CEO Bob Chapek has also vowed to continue fighting Florida’s Parental Rights in Education law, saying the company will work to get the law repealed.  He has also promised to fight similar legislation in other states that would seek to protect the youngest school children from being taught sexual and gender ideology.

But the company’s hard-left turn is backfiring among ordinary Americans.

The backlash isn’t just among conservatives. Among independents, 73 percent said they are less likely to do business with Disney, while more than 48 percent of Democrats said the same thing.

Follow David Ng on Twitter @HeyItsDavidNg. Have a tip? Contact me at dng@breitbart.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

