Watch: Disney Production Coordinator Touts ‘Power’ of Putting Transgender, Queer Characters in Show for Children

A Disney production coordinator who works on an animated series for kids has revealed that he believes it is important to champion transgender, asexual, and other queer characters on the show.

Leaked video of the virtual meeting was obtained by journalist Christopher Rufo, who has posted it to social media.

March said the Moon Girl team has been “really open to exploring queer stories,” adding that he wants to emphasize transgender and queer characters to create a more authentic, contemporary New York setting for the series, which airs on the Disney Channel.

Watch below:

SCOOP: Disney production coordinator Allen March says his team is committed to "exploring queer stories" and has created a "tracker" to make sure they are creating enough "gender nonconforming characters," "canonical trans characters," and "canonical bisexual characters." pic.twitter.com/ddSzw4aqQv

— Christopher F. Rufo ⚔️ (@realchrisrufo) March 29, 2022

During the meeting, March also acknowledged that the media has a lot of power to influence children on “what is normal.”

Children are “getting all this information from the media,” he said, and “there’s a lot of power to that.”

NEW: Disney production coordinator Allen March, who says his team is committed to "exploring queer stories" and promoting "trans," "bisexual," and "gender nonconforming" characters, says kids are "getting all this information from the media" and "there's a lot of power to that." pic.twitter.com/rgxXgcIEwA

— Christopher F. Rufo ⚔️ (@realchrisrufo) March 31, 2022

The leaked videos come as the Walt Disney Co. is contending with widespread backlash for vowing to fight Florida’s Parental Rights in Education legislation, which Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) recently signed into law.

The law forbids the teaching of sexual orientation and gender ideology to young children, in kindergarten through third grade.

As Breitbart News reported, Disney has promised to help fight the law in courts and in the legislature, saying that its goal is to see the law overturned.

Follow David Ng on Twitter @HeyItsDavidNg. Have a tip? Contact me at dng@breitbart.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

