‘Bring it On Biden!’: GOP AG’s Prepare to Defend Trans Athlete Bans

States that have acted to protect biological females from competing against transgender women are now in the crosshairs of left-wing activists and President Joe Biden’s Department of Justice.

The attorney generals in states who have enacted transgender athlete bans are reacting swiftly.

“Mississippi passed a law this year based on the basic premise that girls, and only girls, should play in girls’ sports,” Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch said in a statement to Fox News. “The ink wasn’t even dry from Governor Reeves’ signature before Sports Illustrated was reporting that the ACLU was preparing to sue and the NCAA threatened to take away championship competitions from our State.

“When the Fairness Act becomes law on July 1, I will be ready to defend this law and to defend the right of Mississippi’s girls to compete fairly,” Fitch said.

In his earliest hours in office, Biden signed an executive order to expand the federal Title IX statute that protects women from discrimination based on their sex to include “gender identity.”

Fox News’ report included:

Mississippi Republicans have said the law, which will affect state schools and universities, is a necessary response to Biden’s executive order calling on schools across the country to allow students to participate in sports under their chosen gender identity.

The legislation, known as the Mississippi Fairness Act, is just one of two dozen other bills popping up around the country as some conservatives fear allowing biological male athletes to participate in female sports could strip biological females of opportunities to fairly compete.

[Arkansas] Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed the Fairness in Women’s Sports Act in March after the measure passed through the state House with overwhelming support.

“This law simply says that female athletes should not have to compete in a sport against a student of the male sex when the sport is designed for women’s competition,” Hutchinson said in a statement. “This will help promote and maintain fairness in women’s sporting events.”

Follow Penny Starr on Twitter or send news tips to pstarr@breitbart.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

