‘Caitlyn’ Jenner Attended Houston Megachurches for ‘Photo Ops’

HOUSTON, Texas – While in Houston filming his reality TV show and making other stops, “Caitlyn” Jenner and members of his film crew attended two megachurches whose pastors had been very vocal against Houston’s proposed “bathroom ordinance.” Rev. Dave Welch of the US Pastor Council called the events at the Christmas services, “photo ops.”

After the show, Jenner spoke and prayed with Baptist minister, Dr. Ed Young, who was a vocal opponent of the Houston Equal Rights Ordinance (HERO). Cameras recorded their time together.

Ed Young, Jr. posted a photo and commented on Twitter, “Dad always taught me to love and pray for everyone. Here he is praying with @Caitlyn_Jenner at tonight’s service.” The pastor’s son has a large church of his own located in Grapevine, Texas, and other Texas cities.

Dad has always taught me to love everyone. Here he is praying with @Caitlyn_Jenner at tonight’s service. pic.twitter.com/qpd7wFfEi8

— Ed Young (@EdYoung) December 18, 2015

The younger pastor also tweeted, “Dad and @Caitlyn_Jenner had a great conversation and prayer after last night’s service. #grace”

Dad and @Caitlyn_Jenner had a great conversation and prayer after last night’s service! #gracepic.twitter.com/kVlPQxMEwh

— Ed Young (@EdYoung) December 18, 2015

This Tweet also included a photo.

Breitbart Texas spoke with Senior Pastor Garrett Booth of Grace Church Houston who confirmed that Jenner also attended this week’s family Christmas service at the church.

Moreover, when Mayor Annise Parker and the City of Houston subpoenaed pastors, their sermon notes, and communications with congregants during the litigation over the HERO proposition going to Houston voters, Grace Church’s Steve Riggle said, “We’re not afraid of this bully. This is an attempt to chill pastors from speaking to the cultural issues of the day. The mayor would like to silence our voice. She’s a bully.”

Rev. Dave Welch, Executive Director of US Pastor Council told Breitbart Texas, “The photo ops conducted by Bruce/Caitlyn Jenner in at least two Houston megachurches who were very active in defeating Mayor Parker’s Bathroom Ordinance, were transparent and prove that the battle for decency, freedom and faith is far from over. The tragic stories of Mr. Jenner and those like him who have become confused about how God designed them as male or female, call for our compassion to help heal them, and our determination to never let their plight be our new normal.”

The local ABC affiliate reported that while in Houston, Jenner met with a mother of a transgender son who said that the defeat of the ordinance would make her son’s life more difficult.

Breitbart Texas reported extensively about the Houston “bathroom ordinance” proposition that opponents say would have opened women’s restrooms to men who are transgender, or who “identify” with the female gender.

Jonathan Saenz of Texas Values told Breitbart Texas, “We understand that some in local government want to control people’s lives and punish people with $5,000 in fines if they don’t bow down to a ruler. However, protecting the safety of women and children by allowing business owners the freedom to stop men from going into women’s bathrooms, locker rooms and shower rooms is something that people from all backgrounds agree on – white and black, Republican and Democrat, and gay or straight. If a person feels or believes that going through a sex change might result in more difficulty or challenges in their life, maybe that’s something they should think about more before they individually decide to make such a voluntary change.”

The Houston ABC affiliate reported that Jenner apparently spent an unpublicized two days in Houston attending a “unity event” and filming his reality TV show.

Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as an associate judge and prosecutor. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

