‘There’s a Political Agenda Pushing This’: Six-Year-Old Pulled from School over ‘Transgender’ Classmate

A family in Britain has pulled their children out of a Church of England primary school after their six-year-old son’s classmate was allowed to wear a dress to school and identify “as a girl some days and as a boy other days.”

Nigel and Sally Rowe, who will now be home-schooling their children, are also reportedly “planning to mount a legal challenge against the school.”

Nigel Rowe took his child out of school over another pupil's request to be recognised as transgender #r4today pic.twitter.com/VYaM37cBE9

— BBC Radio 4 Today (@BBCr4today) September 11, 2017

“It was the fact that he was identifying as a girl some days and as a boy other days, so the fact that he was dressing up in that manner and was trying to portray that particular gender on that day,” explained Nigel Rowe during an interview on BBC Radio 4 Today. “So for us it was very difficult because it’s inconsistent.”

“Many parents are concerned that they are going to have their son or daughter going to school and the next thing they know they’ve got children who are coming dressed in a different gender,” he continued, adding, “We have a social understanding that we have boys and we have girls.”

“There’s a distinct difference between male and female, you know, not just in what you wear, but also within our DNA, the way that we are as boys and the way that we are as girls,” Rowe proclaimed. “We feel that there’s a political agenda that’s driving and pushing this. Remember we’re talking children that are six years of age. A six-year-old is not really able to… doesn’t have the mental capacity to work out those kinds of things. It’s such a young age, and we’re concerned about that.”

The couple was quickly criticized by politicians, including Conservative Party MP Anna Soubry and Labour Party MP Stella Creasy.

Not very "Christian" parents @BBCr4today remove son because a classmate #transgender alternates "girls/boys" school uniform #relax #love

— Anna Soubry MP (@Anna_Soubry) September 11, 2017

.@overton951 @BBCr4today get your ignorant prejudice off my time line! Blocked

— Anna Soubry MP (@Anna_Soubry) September 11, 2017

So sad to hear parent teach their child to hate like this- hope that both kids in get support need to be loved and love instead #equality https://t.co/st7PF8H4ly

— stellacreasy (@stellacreasy) September 11, 2017

Sad to hear parent on #r4today "If a child has got gender confusion it needs to be dealt with in a private space".  #nonbinarygender #school

— Caroline Russell (@CarolineRussell) September 11, 2017

Last week, it was reported that a 14-year-old Australian boy had changed his mind two years after he began gender transition into a woman with female hormones at age 12.

The boy began taking estrogen hormones at 12-years-old after “professionals” told his mother it was the “right choice,” following a diagnosis of gender dysphoria. He is now attempting to revert to his previous body, undergoing surgery to remove excess breast tissue.

Last year, Reuters reported that parents were accepting their children as transgender at ages as young as three, while in 2015, the number of children seeking medical attention for transgenderism went up by 400 percent.

In an August 2016 report, scientific research also concluded “that most of the supposedly transgender children and teenagers who ask to change sexes instead just change their minds and grow up as normal adults,” while in October a court ordered a seven-year-old boy to be removed from his mother’s care after she forced him to be raised as a girl, which social services allegedly abided by, causing “significant emotional harm” in the child.

Last month, it was also reported that a Californian first grader had been sent to the principal’s office for misgendering a fellow student, who had recently come out as transgender.

At the same school, Rocklin Academy, parents also complained after a teacher read a book about transgenderism to students without notifying them.

“My daughter came home crying and shaking so afraid she could turn into a boy,” claimed one parent.

The book was allegedly given to the teacher by the same transgender child at the school, who “also changed clothes and was revealed as her true gender” during class.

In 2016, President Obama introduced a controversial transgender plan, which recommended “parents be secretly excluded from any decisive role when their children experiment with sexual ‘gender identities’ as male or female,” according to Breitbart News’ Neil Munro.

Charlie Nash covers technology and LGBT news for Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington and Gab @Nash, or like his page at Facebook.

 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

