‘You Go, Girl’: L.A. Times Cheers Threats of Violence Against Breitbart’s Ben Shapiro

In an article titled “You Go, Girl: Zoey Tur Gets Aggressive With a Bully From Breitbart News, The Los Angeles Times openly cheers the fact that one person placed their hands on another and then made threats of violence.

The reporter, Robin Abcarian, also omits or glosses over numerous facts inconvenient to her fascist narrative. The piece is not only dishonest, it is the elite media championing the dangerous idea that moving from speech to violence is sometimes okay.

And when is such a thing okay?

You know that scene in a movie when the bully gets his comeuppance?

And you know how you cheer even though you know physical aggression is wrong, but you are thinking hey, someone had to teach this guy a lesson?

That was pretty much my reaction as I watched Zoey Tur’s now well-known interaction with Breitbart News Editor-at-Large Ben Shapiro last week on “Dr. Drew on Call,” the Headline News talk show hosted by addiction expert Drew Pinsky. …

I didn’t think what Tur did amounted to bullying at all, since she was responding to an outrageous and insulting provocation.

Let me end with Shapiro’s own advice from his book on bullies, based on his own experience as a scrawny, picked-on high school student:

“Bullies,” he wrote, “don’t stop bullying until somebody fights them.”

Exactly right.

Even if you are naïve enough to accept Abcarian’s facts at face value, her premise is still monstrous. Under no circumstance can a civil society accept the idea that it is ever in any way okay for debate, argument, or disagreement to jump the big red line into violence or threats of violence.

And we all know that if the roles were reversed and the circumstance exactly the same, if it were Shapiro who had threatened Tur in this way, Shapiro’s career would be over and the L.A. Times would cheering the end of that career. And justifiably so.

Intellectual dishonesty is par for the course with left-wing outlets like the L.A. Times. But as though the author feared that telling the entire story truthfully might undermine her “You go, girl-ing,” the piece is also riddled with numerous lies and lies of omission,: [emphasis added]

And then she turned to Shapiro and gently put her hand on his shoulder. “You don’t know what you’re talking about, you’re not educated on genetics.”

Shapiro looked at Tur: “What are your genetics, sir?”

That is when Tur lost it.

With her hand still on Shapiro’s back, she said quietly, “You cut that out now, or you’ll go home in an ambulance.”

This is an outright lie.

Tur grabbed Shapiro by the back of the neck. This fact is on video at the 5:32 mark.

Abcarian’s lies of omission are just as glaring as the lie above.

Nowhere in the piece did Abcarian tell her readers that Tur’s threats continued after the show to the point where the show’s producers felt it was necessary to walk Shapiro to his car.

Nowhere in the piece did Abcarian tell her readers that Tur publicly championed the idea that Shapiro be “curb-stomped,” a practice made infamous by neo-Nazis (Shapiro is Jewish).

When you have powerful media outlets not only excusing but cheering on threats of violence against another; when powerful media outlets abdicate the social pact to support the right of an “approved” aggressor to violate the rights of an “approved” victim, the smallest and most vulnerable minority in our country — The Individual — must have the right to protect him or herself.

Don’t be fooled by the pretty rainbow flag.

The Brownshirts aren’t coming, they are already here.

P.S. Like the rest of the mainstream media, Abcarian might truly believe she is being some kind of “down with the struggle” social justice warrior for the transgendered, when the truth is that she is anti-science. The only morally appropriate and compassionate cause for the transgendered is to get them the expert mental health help they so desperately need. To play along with Tur’s tortured delusion that he is a woman, especially after his unbalanced behavior towards Shapiro, is either an astonishing act of destructive ignorance on Abcarian’s part, or selfish indecency mixed with abject cowardice.

 

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

*** This article has also been posted to Breitbart's Facebook page.  Join the conversation on Facebook.

