12 fun, cute and subtle t-shirts to celebrate your bisexuality this Bi Visibility Day – and beyond

Bi Visibility Day takes place on 23 September to celebrate the bisexual community and the history of bisexuality.

The annual celebration takes place on the final day of Bisexual Awareness Week, which became an extension of the visibility day.

If you identify as bisexual and want to rep some bi pride on Bi Visibility Day, and all-year round, then there are some amazing t-shirts you can get.

They feature the colours of the bi flag – pink, purple and blue – and have been created to so you can flaunt your true colours.

Below we’ve put together a handful of the t-shirts you can get to be loud and proud about being bisexual.

This article contains affiliate links, PinkNews may earn revenue if you click through and purchase products through the links.

To start off the list is this classic t-shirt featuring two rainbows on the front in the colours of the bi flag. It’s popular among customers with reviewers calling it “comfy”, “cute” and of course, a great way to show off your pride. This shirt is available from Etsy here.

Another simple t-shirt is this one which features a cute bisexual flag. It’s available in grey, black and white, while the sizing is gender neutral and you can get it from the PinkNews shop.

This adorable t-shirt features a smiley heart in the colours of the bi flag, with the design also available on hoodies, stickers, mugs and face masks. So you can rep your pride everywhere! To get this t-shirt head to TeePublic.

This t-shirt reads “not a phase” alongside a graphic design of the moon in the bi flag colours. This one is perfect to rep on Bi Visibility Day and every day, for the naysayers who make biphobic remarks about bisexuality. To get it and wear it proudly head to TeePublic.

Another tee perfect to make a statement is this one which reads “respect my existence or expect my resistance”, against the backdrop of the bi flag. This one is available from TeePublic.

This simple t-shirt features a simple but important statement that reads “bi people are real”. You can get it in white, baby blue, soft pink, yellow or black and it’s available from the PinkNews shop.

This t-shirt which reads “bisexual and still not into you” is ideal if you don’t want anyone to speak to you (an introvert’s dream). It’s also a nice f**k you to anyone who says that bisexuals are ‘greedy’. To get this t-shirt head to Etsy here.

Another one which answers those annoying questions so you don’t have to, as it reads “do you like boys or girls” with the simple answer “yes”. This one is available in a number of colours and you can buy it from Etsy here.

Another quote t-shirt but this time a little more, er, light-hearted as it reads “bi, shy and ready to cry”. We’re sure plenty of people will think this t-shirt is a mood whether you’re LGBT+ or not. To get it head to TeePublic.

Another fun t-shirt is this one which is specifically for the bisexual Shrek stans, which we’re sure there are a lot of, because who doesn’t love the Shrek franchise? It features the phrase “bi-shrexual” embellished across the chest in the same style as the film’s logo. This one is available to buy from Etsy here.

This t-shirt featuring a design of a cute cat repping a bi Pride flag and the phrase “wear your colours”. You can wear your colours on Bi Visibility Day with this t-shirt and it’s available from TeePublic.

Another cute tee you can get features a symbol often adopted by the LGBT+ community, and that’s the unicorn. This one features the majestic animal in the colours of the bi flag and it’s available from TeePublic.

