150 pride organisations condemn anti-transgender bigotry in joint statement

More than 150 pride organisations from across the world have condemned anti-transgender bigotry in a powerful joint statement released for Trans Day of Visibility.

In the joint statement—which was published today on the European Pride Organisers Association website and is titled #PrideWithTheT—they say they are “disgusted and appalled by the visceral hatred and intolerance being targeted at the trans community.”

“Our Pride organisations are founded on a basis of respect, and we demand that all who come to Pride share our commitment to the equality and human rights of everyone in the LGBTI community,” the statement reads.

“Those who oppose equality and respect for any section of our community are as unwelcome at Pride as those who oppose equality and respect for every section of our community.

“We say again that enough is enough. We are proud to be part of this great movement, and we affirm that our Prides stand firmly With The T.”

The statement has been co-signed by various pride organisations from countries across the world.

One of the signatories is Pride in London, who last year experienced a “hijack” at their march when a group of anti-trans protesters made their way to the front of the parade and held up offensive signs about transgender people.

When the group of 10 women took the lead spot, security and police did nothing to remove them. One of the signs said “transactivists erase lesbians.”

– Pride With The T statement


The incident led to widespread backlash from LGBT+ organisations. Stonewall CEO Ruth Hunt hit out at organisers and said they had “a duty to act and protect trans people.”



Meanwhile, Pride in London co-chair Alison Camps later condemned the actions in an interview with PinkNews and said the protesters were “bigots who brought disgrace on themselves.”

This year’s Pride in London parade will have “enhanced” security, organisers said late last year, after the event was disrupted by protesters.

In their annual impact report, Pride in London co-chair Alison Camps wrote: “As an organisation that seeks to be inclusive, we face tough decisions reconciling the different and often complex views within our community.

“We want to be clear that we do not support those who seek to divide our community; our aim is to create an event that celebrates and is respectful of difference.

“We are especially keen to support those members of our community, such as those who identify as trans, who face growing hostility from all sides, not least from an increasingly hostile media and social media.”

Over the last year, anti-transgender sentiment has increased exponentially as various media outlets have debated transgender people’s rights.

