17th recorded transgender person shot to death in the US

A transgender person has been shot to death in Texas.

Gwynevere River Song is the 17th recorded murder of a trans person in the US this year.

The 26-year-old was shot in Waxahachie following an argument with someone who has not yet been named.

It is believed that they identified as transfeminine non-binary. 

Ellis County Sheriff’s PIO Sgt. Joe Fitzgerald told the Waxahachie Daily Light that another person had also been injured in the shooting.

“Upon arrival, deputies and medics rendered aid to the injured male. American Medical Response transported the man to the hospital. [The deceased] remained inside the residence and succumbed to injuries,” Fitzgerald said.

The victim’s mother is holding a memorial service on August 21 and has invited the trans community to pay their respects at 2 pm at the Wayne Boze Funeral Home.

The murder of River Song is the 17th known homicide against a transgender person this year.

The list of victims is largely trans women of colour. 

Earlier this month, TeeTee Dangerfield was shot outside of an apartment complex in Atlanta.

The murder of Dangerfield came just days after “comedian” Lil’ Duval went on the radio show the Breakfast Club and “joked” about killing trans women.

Duval, real name Roland Powell, said that if he found out somebody was trans after having sex with them, he would kill them.



41-year-old Mesha Caldwell was shot to death in Mississippi in January and no suspects have been arrested as yet.

Jamie Lee Wounded Arrow was a 28-year-old who identified as trans and two spirit. She was found dead at her home in South Dakota in January. Joshua Rayvon LeClaire has been charged with her murder.

JoJo Striker was killed in Ohio in February. The 23-year-old was cherished by friends and family.

Tiara Richmond, also known as KeKe Collier, was shot in Chicago at the age of 24 in February.

31-year-old Chyna Doll Dupree was shot and killed in New Orleans in February. She was a celebrated performer in the community.

Ciara McElveen, 31, was stabbed to death in New Orleans two days after Dupree.

Jaquarrius Holand was 18 when she was shot to death in Monroe, Louisiana in February.

38-year-old Alphonza Watson was shot and killed in Baltimore, Maryland in March. She was described as the “sunshine” of her family.

Chay Reed, 28, was shot to death in April in Miami.

Brenda Bostick was a 59-year-old homeless trans woman who was found with severe injuries in Manhattan. It’s important to note that Bostick may not have identified as trans at the time of their death, according to the family.

Sherrell Faulkner died in May at the age of 46 after being viciously attacked in November in North Carolina. The attacker has not yet been apprehended.

27-year-old Kenne McFadden was found dead in April in the San Antonio River. It’s believed that she was pushed to her death, although police are yet to have made arrests.

Kendra Marie Adams (Josie Berrios) was found in dead in June with severe burns on her body. Michael Davis has been charged with the murder of the 28-year-old.

Ava Le’Ray Barrin was shot and killed in Georgia at just 17 in June.

Ebony Morgan was the latest recorded trans murder. The 28-year-old was shot multiple times in Virginia at the start of July.

