A Republican congresswoman just compared transgender military personnel to ISIS

A Republican representative has compared transgender military personnel to ISIS.

Vicky Hartzler said that trans soldiers were as much of a threat to the US as “North Korea, and Putin, and ISIS”.



The Missouri congresswoman appeared on the talk show “Washington Watch” with Tony Perkins from the notoriously anti-LGBT organisation, Family Research Council.

She was asked about policy surrounding transgender troops and claimed that they were a “real problem”.

Hartzler said: “At a time when we should be focusing on the threats from North Korea, and Putin, and ISIS, we’re having to deal with a threat here at home — a domestic threat — of allowing transgenders in our service, which is a real problem because it impacts their readiness, and it’s a huge cost for our military.”

The congresswoman cited the cost of trans troops as the “threat” that they would pose.

She claimed that trans troops would be an added cost of $1.35 billion.

However, the estimated figure is a fraction of Hartzler’s claims as the RAND Corporation predicted trans troops healthcare would cost between $2.4 million and $8.4 million.

RAND’S figures make up just 0.04% – 0.13% of current US military cost on healthcare.

It isn’t the first time that Hartzler has drawn comparisons between the LGBT community and less than desirable groups.



In 2011, she compared gay marriage to incest, paedophilia and allowing three-year-olds to drive.

The Tea Party member spoke to college students at Eagle Forum Collegians Summit about legalising same-sex marriage.

She said: “Why not allow an uncle to marry his niece? Why not allow a 50-year-old man to marry a 12-year-old girl if they love each other and they’re committed? So pretty soon if you don’t set parameters, you don’t have any.

“We’re saying marriage is between a man and a woman. It’s not a right in the Constitution as far as that goes either. It’s not a right of anybody to have a three-year-old to be able to drive a car. The government has [to] set some parameters,” she added.

