A transgender ‘Euphoria’ fan had the sweetest interaction with Zendaya and Hunter Schafer

A trans fan of HBO’s Euphoria received the best surprise after meeting Zendaya.

The transgender girl met the star of the show and proceeded to tell her how Hunter Schafer is “an inspiration” to her.

Schafer plays transgender character Jules on the show, and Schafer herself is trans.

According to a tweet, Zendaya then Facetimed Schafer to give the fan a chance to speak to her.

“Zendaya facetimed Hunter because the girl is trans and said Hunter was an inspiration to her through Euphoria and Zendaya wanted to connect the 2 of them so she could tell Hunter herself,” the tweet said.

The video shows the fan in tears, repeating how she “has to be dreaming” and it “can’t be real”.

so zendaya facetimed hunter because the girl is trans and said hunter was an inspiration to her through euphoria and zendaya wanted to connect the 2 of them so she could tell hunter herself? MY HEART pic.twitter.com/94WeUb49ha
— emily (@spideyscheIIe) November 16, 2019

— emily (@spideyscheIIe) November 16, 2019



Schafer can be heard thanking the fan for calling and saying she’s happy to meet her.

Zendaya then takes a photo of the fan and Schafer on FaceTime, while telling the fan:

“I’m glad you came up to me.”

The video ends with Zendaya hugging the fan, saying, “You have all of our love.”

that is the most adorable thing i’ve ever seen
— iness stands with taylor✨ (@sabsfantasy) November 16, 2019

— iness stands with taylor✨ (@sabsfantasy) November 16, 2019



Omg @Zendaya is a literal saint!!! Making her fans feel genuinely happy
— film is not dead ✨? (@gypsygemmage) November 16, 2019

— film is not dead ✨? (@gypsygemmage) November 16, 2019



My whole ass heart wow zendaya is an angel sent from heaven pic.twitter.com/ma162WhjbP
— Cristina (@ccristinaa) November 16, 2019

— Cristina (@ccristinaa) November 16, 2019



Zendaya and Hunter are both absolute angels. I want to one day tell Hunter how much she and her portrayal of Jules mean to me.
— RIP PeePee the Cat (@rockstar_mp) November 16, 2019

— RIP PeePee the Cat (@rockstar_mp) November 16, 2019



Interactions like this really affirm the importance of positive transgender representation in media, and how much of an impact it can have on young people.

