Ab Fab’s Patsy is transgender, reveals Joanna Lumley

The star also praised the show for its casual approach to sexuality.

Joanna Lumley has revealed that her iconic Absolutely Fabulous character Patsy Stone is transgender.

The actress made the revelation about her booze and drug-addled alter ego as she discussed the show’s colourful history – praising the BBC comedy as groundbreaking in its approach to LGBT characters and storylines.



“You go back and pick through it, the amount of gay references and ease with which it’s been put into the story, without it being dragged along like a great log of plot,” Lumley told V Magazine.

“It’s really normal that one of [Edina’s] ex-husbands now lives with his young boyfriend. It’s completely normal that [Edina] wants Saffy [Edina’s long-suffering daughter] to be a lesbian or that Serge [Edina’s long lost son] is gay and living in New York.

“It’s completely normal that Patsy is transgender.”

Ab Fab creator Jennifer Saunders went on to share her admiration for the show’s gay fanbase.

“We tried very hard,” said Saunders, “but [gay people] refused to be offended – and I admire them for that.

“Thank God you’re hanging on in there.”

A recent trailer for the eagerly-anticipated Ab Fab movie sees the ageing fashionistas on the run after Eddie accidentally knocks Kate Moss into the Thames.

The hapless PR guru does so while trying to sign up the legendary model to her agency.

After becoming a national hate figure, Eddie – aided by sidekick Patsy – escapes for a new life in the South of France, where they pursue a life of luxury – and cause their usual mayhem.



Moss is just one of countless famous faces set to appear in the upcoming big screen outing, after it was recently announced that a whopping sixty celebrities – including Joan Collins, Dame Edna Everage and Graham Norton – will make cameos.

Original cast members Julia Sawalha, Jane Horrocks and June Whitfield also make their return.

Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie opens in UK cinemas on July 1.

