Annie Wallace has played for transgender charity Mermaids on BBC’s Mastermind

Transgender actor Annie Wallace has competed on BBC one quiz show Mastermind for transgender charity Mermaids.

Annie Wallace, best known for her role as Sally St Claire in Channel 4 soap opera Hollyoaks, was one of the first transgender actors to play a long-running transgender character in a British soap and was also the first transgender actor to be nominated for a BAFTA.

Unlike the normal version of Mastermind where ordinary people compete for a trophy, the celebrity version sees famous faces test their knowledge to compete for money that will be donated to a charity of their choice.

Wallace’s chosen charity Mermaids is a transgender organisation that aims to help and support children, families, and young people who are facing difficulties regarding gender nonconformity.

They also help to raise awareness of transgender issues, and campaign for the recognition of gender dysphoria in young people.

Wallace has used her social media platform to create awareness amongst her followers about her appearance on the show, which is now available on iPlayer.

In her tweets, she has tagged her chosen charity, Mermaids, as a way to link her followers with the charity so that they can further explore what it is they do.

Annie has been a trans activist for over 27 years and is an active patron of Mermaids, Sparkle, and Manchester Pride.



She uses her Twitter profile as a way to constantly educate her followers on trans rights and transgender issues.

Related: This trans woman is helping to fight for better representation on your TV

This sometimes can lead to heated debates, however, her message of demanding respect for the trans community always shines through.

Her trans activism is a big part of her career and when speaking of it she said that “visibility and destigmatisation are essential if we want to win hearts and minds over the anti-trans rhetoric and lies we’ve been having to deal with for the last year or so”.



Related: Laverne Cox made an important point about trans representation in the media

Hollyoaks gave Wallace her first long-term TV role, but she doesn’t want to be pinned as just a trans actress.

While explaining what she wants viewers to get from seeing her on Mastermind she said: “I hope that people see a not-so-dim actress and that it entertains them. Being trans is pretty immaterial in this case”.

Hopefully, Annie will win some good money for Mermaids on Mastermind, and bring attention to a charity that is helping trans people, and families, who are suffering.

Annie Wallace played for Mermaids against vlogger Grace Victory, comedian Dane Baptiste, and broadcaster Martin Bell on Mastermind on January 9.

