Anti-LGBT+ Christian activist claims Joe Biden is forming a ‘transgender atheist army’

An anti-LGBT+ Christian activist and former Republican lawmaker has claimed that president elect Joe Biden is forming a “transgender atheist army”.

Gordon Klingenschmitt is a former Navy chaplain who served in the Colorado House of Representatives from 2015 until 2017, and is now a Christian anti-LGBT+ activist and “motivational speaker” who goes by the name “Dr Chaps”. 

In a newsletter to his followers, Klingenschmitt warned that Joe Biden was planning to form a “transgender atheist army for the antichrist”.

In the newsletter he referenced Biden’s victory speech, in which he thanked “gay, straight and transgender” Americans for their support, his promise to reverse Donald Trump’s trans military ban, and other commitments to protection the LGBT+ community.

But Klingenschmitt insisted that Biden was out to “transgenderize the military and punish Christian troops”, writing: “Female solders and students will be forced to share common showers and rooms with cross-dressing men or boys with male anatomy, within hours of Biden’s inauguration.”

He added: “Christian troops who object to sharing co-ed showers and bunks with opposite gender anatomy will be vilified as ‘discriminators’ and punished, demoted, discharged or court-martialed.

“Mark my words. The devil wants an atheist army for the antichrist, soon.”

Gordon Klingenschmitt has become notorious for making nonsensical and hateful claims about the LGBT+ community.

He recently claimed that the Equality Act, which would protect LGBT+ people from discrimination, would provide protections for those who commit incest, necrophilia, pedophilia and zoophilia. 

In 2015, when the Boy Scouts National Executive Board lifted a ban on gay scout leaders, Klingenschmitt said they should be “drowned”.

Speaking on his YouTube show “Pray in Jesus Name”, he said: “If your boy is in one of those organisations, you need to get the out of there because what they’re going to do is promote homosexual men to mentoring and camping with your boys in the woods and it will lead to child abuse.”

He added that it would be better for “these gay child molesters to be tossed into the sea and drowned than to be allowed to cause a child to sin”.

In 2018, he claimed that Sesame Street writer Mark Saltzman, who said he thought of Bert and Ernie as gay, was trying to “recruit the children of heterosexual couples”.

“Mark Saltzman, by projecting his sexuality upon beloved children’s puppets, he is actually trying to recruit children into his perverse lifestyle so that he can eventually recruit them to become what he is,” the Christian activist said.

“Homosexuals, because they don’t have their own children, they have to recruit the children of heterosexual couples in order to continue and propagate their own population of available sex partners.

“They are perverting and recruiting children by making these false allegations and that is a demonic spirit inside of you, Mark Saltzman, who [is] targeting children for your own pleasure.”

He has also claimed that gay people should not serve in the military because they were “taking breaks on the combat field to change diapers all because their treacherous sin causes them to lose control of their bowels”, that LGBT+ people want the right to have sex in Christians’ houses and that Caitlyn Jenner is possessed by demons.

