Ben Carson never wants to pee next to a transgender person

Ben Carson has said that transgender people should have their own bathrooms, so that they don’t make “everybody else uncomfortable.”

Talking to Fusion, the Republican presidential candidate – who is currently leading in the polls – was responding to a question about the recent defeat of the Houston Equal Rights Ordinance.

He said: “How about we have a transgender bathroom?

“It is not fair for them to make everybody else uncomfortable. It’s one of the things that I don’t particularly like about the [LGBT] movement.

“I think everybody has equal rights, but I’m not sure that anybody should have extra rights—extra rights when it comes to redefining everything for everybody else and imposing your view on everybody else.”



Anti-LGBT campaigners in Houston focused their campaign against the ordinance on the issue of transgender people’s access to public bathrooms, using the slogan ‘No Men in Women’s Bathrooms’ and releasing a video portraying a man following a young girl into a bathroom stall.

The ordinance was scrapped after 61% of Houstonian voters came out against HERO. The ordinance had made it illegal to discriminate against LGBT people in regards to housing and employment.

Ben Carson has been an outspoken opponent of LGBT equality before and since he began seeking the Republican party nomination for president.

The candidate last year insisted that same-sex marriage is a Marxist plot from the New World Order, claiming in a speech to a listed anti-gay group last year that gay weddings are part of a plan “to destroy unity [and] bring America down.”

Dr Carson has repeatedly been forced to apologise for homophobic comments – apologising after he was caught comparing gay people to paedophiles, and also apologising after he was caught claiming that prisons ‘prove’ being gay is a choice.

His repeated humiliations have not dissuaded him, however – just last month he compared gay couples to conjoined twins.

