Body of missing transgender woman found

The body of a transgender woman who went missing last week has been found.

Zakaria Fry and her flatmate, Eugene Carrell Ray, went missing in the middle of January. 

Fry, 28, was renting a room from 70-year-old Ray. 

Police were alerted about their disappearance on January 29 after family of Ray found his home in “disarray”. 

The two bodies were discovered by a rancher. 

One body was found stuffed into a rubbish bin.

Another was found two miles away on the same road just outside of Santa Fe, Albuquerque. 

Police have not released information about their deaths and are urging people with any knowledge about what happened to contact Crime Stoppers on 505-843-STOP. 

Friends of Fry have shared messages of condolence on Facebook. 

“Words cannot say how much of an amazing person. The fun times we had at the casino will forever be in my head. 



“Rest In Peace, sweet girl. Your [sic] going to be missed. I can’t believe your gone,” wrote one. 

Another said: “You were such a fun and positive person despite all the challenges you faced in life. 

“You were a brave, strong and inspirational woman. 

“Your spirit lives on and you are missed by many. May you rest in peace.” 

“You were my older sister. You took care of me and loved me like family. 

“I’ll forever love you. I’m sorry,” a third added. 

Fry is the sixth known trans woman to be murdered in the US. 

Phylicia Mitchell was the fifth. She was shot to death outside of her home in Cleveland, Ohio. 

Miss Trans America, Christa Leigh Steele-Knudslien, was the first transgender woman killed this year.

She was found stabbed to death in her home. Her husband Mark Steele-Knudslien, has been arrested on suspicion of the murder after he confessed to police that he had killed her. However, he has since entered a not guilty plea at his arraignment hearing.

Viccky Gutierrez was the second trans woman killed in the US in 2018.

Gutierrez was brutally murdered and her body was found burnt.

A third trans woman, Tonya Harvey, 35, was shot dead in Buffalo, New York. 

Local trans rights activist Ari Moore told Buffalo News: “The hatred, the bigotry and the aggressive attacks on trans people is almost an everyday occurrence in our lives.”

Similarly to Harvey, Celine Walker was misgendered by authorities meaning that her death only came to the attention of media outlets at a later date. 

Walker was shot in the same week as Harvey. She was found dead in a hotel room in Jackson, Florida.

