Brave transgender woman is shot after trying to wrestle gun off attacker

A transgender woman has been shot by a man after trying bravely to take the weapon away from him.

A total of 16 trans people have been killed so far this year in the US – most of whom were women of colour – and this incident only served to reinforce how dangerous life is for trans women in the country.

The 29-year-old victim and her attacker started scuffling in the parking lot of a petrol station in Detroit, Michigan, on Monday.

The two entered the store while struggling over the gun, with the trans woman looking like she had the upper hand.

While another customer fled the area, the woman continued desperately fighting for her life.

Police said that after the provided CCTV recording, the trans woman was shot, but is expected to make a full recovery.

“As the victim attempt to take the weapon from the suspect, the victim was shot,” police said in a statement.

“After the shooting, the suspect fled the location.”

Detroit Police Chief James Craig told ClickOnDetroit: “Anytime there’s a crime, it’s tragic.

“Certainly, this community wants to know: Is it a hate crime? What is it?” he added.

As it stands, the police has not yet confirmed whether the attack was motivated by transphobia.



“It’s too early to tell, but we’ll get more information,” said Craig.

Local resident Cierra Burks said she wouldn’t be surprised if it was a hate crime, “especially if it’s somewhere in this area, where transgender women are targeted.

“I’m glad she fought back. I’m glad she’s still here,” added Burks.

A total of 28 trans people were killed in the US in 2017, the highest number on record.

The current rate of trans killings in 2018 is around the same as last year.

Diamond Stephens, 39, was shot dead while driving home in Meridian, Mississippi, but despite being found in her car on June 18, was not identified as trans for more than a month because she was misgendered by local media and authorities.

Keisha Wells, 58, was fatally shot in Cleveland. Her body was found in the car park of an apartment building with a gunshot wound to the abdomen on June 24.

Josie Berrios, 28, from Ithaca, New York, was found dead in an apartment block on June 12.

The body of Antash’a English, 38, was found on June 1 between two derelict homes in Jacksonville, Florida, with gunshot wounds.

Gigi Pierce, 28, died in Portland, Oregon on May 21 after being shot dead in public following an altercation.

Nino Fortson, 36, died after being shot multiple times following an argument in Atlanta, Georgia during the early hours of May 13.

Carla Patricia Flores-Pavon, 18, was choked to death in Dallas, Texas, earlier this month.

Sasha Wall, 29, was shot dead in Chesterfield County, South Carolina, in April, dying after suffering multiple gunshots in her car.

Amia Tyrae Berryman, a 28-year-old from Los Angeles, was the seventh trans person to be killed this year.

She was found shot to death in a motel room in March.

In February, the body of Zakaria Fry, 28, was found on a road just outside of Santa Fe, Albuquerque.

Phylicia Mitchell was shot dead in Cleveland, Ohio. The 45-year-old was found in her living room on February 23 with bullet wounds in her chest.

Celine Walker, 36, was found shot to death in a motel room in Jacksonville, Florida in February.

Also in February, Tonya Harvey, 35, was shot dead on Shepard Street in Buffalo, New York.

Harvey’s murder followed the killings of Christa Leigh Steele-Knudslien, who founded the Miss Trans America pageant, and Viccky Gutierrez, who was burned to death in Los Angeles.

Steele-Knudslien was found stabbed to death in her home.

Watch the trans woman try to tackle her attacker: 


