Charlize Theron tells everyone to respect her transgender daughter’s pronouns

Charlize Theron has urged people to use the right pronouns for her transgender daughter.

The Bombshell actress spoke out in April to clarify that she has “two beautiful daughters”, after her eldest child, seven, came out as transgender.

In an interview with PrideSource on Monday, Theron explained that while she does not wish to speak to her daughter’s experiences, it is important people refer to her using the correct pronouns.

She said: “My daughter’s story is really her story, and one day, if she chooses, she’ll tell her story.

“I feel like as her mother, for me, it was important to let the world know that I would appreciate it if they would use the right pronouns for her.”

The actress continued: “I think it became harder for us the older she got that people were still writing about her in the wrong pronouns, and also I was still talking about her in the press using the wrong pronoun. It really hurt her feelings.

“I don’t want to be that mum, and that was really why I said what I said.”

She added: “I haven’t really talked about it ever since, again, because outside of just asking that respectfully of the press – and the world, hopefully – the rest is really private and it’s her story, and it’s really up to her to decide if she wants to share that.”

Theron did speak about her own inclusive approach to parenting.

She said: “We definitely have these conversations whenever they say, ‘I’m gonna get married’ and I’m always like, ‘What is it gonna be? A boy or a girl? What is it gonna be?’

“I love that my kids just know that that’s a normal question to ask.

“One of my daughters [aged four] is convinced that she’s gonna be married five times and it’s gonna be three boys and two girls, and I just love that she has the freedom to think that way.



“God knows what it’s going to be, but I love that she feels safe enough to explore in her little-girl brain that anything is possible and that she’s gonna go and discover that for herself.”

Theron is also a long-time LGBT+ activist. In 2009, she said she would not marry until equal marriage was a reality across the US.

