Children’s hospital targeted after Libs of TikTok spreads anti-trans ‘misinformation’… again

Akron Children’s Hospital in Ohio is the latest US hospital to be targeted with threats for providing vital healthcare for trans youths.

It comes after becoming “the focus of some online chatter that is full of misinformation about the care we provide”, a hospital spokesperson said. 

They told News 5 Cleveland the hospital was forced to take down the gender-affirming care section on its website after social media users flooded the facility with “harassment, intimidation and the intentional spread of misinformation”.

“We firmly believe that young people should have access to gender-affirming care programs that are based on research and standards of care. We proudly stand behind the work of our program and providers.

“We remain committed to offering a safe, inclusive and welcoming place for all patients, families and staff.”

In most countries hormones to aid transitioning can be prescribed when a child reaches 16 or 18, but gender-affirming surgery is restricted to adults over 18.

It was a news story about the hospital providing gender-affirming care, shared by right-wing social media accounts – including Libs of TikTok – that reportedly resulted in the provider being attacked online. 

The social media account recently targeted Boston Children’s Hospital which led to a bomb threat and the hospital being forced into lockdown. Following this incident Catherine Leavy, 37,  was charged with making a false bomb threat. 

Most recently a few anti-trans activists gathered outside Boston Children’s Hospital in protest of it providing gender-affirming care. 

Owner of the hate-fuelled Libs of TikTok account, Chaya Raichik, told the Washington Post her team “100 per cent condemns any acts/threats of violence”.

Raichik later wrote on her site that she won’t stop calling out hospitals and sharing their information, despite her account being suspended.

The attack follows Fox News host Tucker Carlson comparing gender-affirming healthcare to a “crime”. 

Carlson, who has a long history of making chilling anti-LGBTQ+ comments, spouted hate against trans affirming healthcare during a lengthy segment on his Fox News show, Tucker Carlson Tonight. 

During the show he rallied against the Vanderbilt University Medical Center (VUMC) in Tennessee which led to it receiving an influx of hate. 

In August this year the Libs of TikTok was briefly banned on Facebook for not following the platforms “community standards”.

PinkNews has contacted Chaya Raichik and Akron Children’s Hospital for comment. 

