Controlling mother sues to block her estranged daughter getting transgender treatment

A mother is suing her own transgender daughter – to stop her from receiving gender treatment.

Minnesota woman Anmarie Calgaro had launched legal action against her estranged 17-year-old daughter and the school, hospital and officials responsible for helping her secure treatment. Court documents reveal Calgaro “made it known to [her daughter] that she no longer wishes to have any contact with [her] when she came out with trans.

Calgaro is furious that healthcare providers treated her 17-year-old daughter as an emancipated minor, allowing her to begin transitioning and take hormones without parental consent.

The lawsuit, set to be heard before a US District Court this week, challenges the determination of emancipation that allowed doctors “to provide medical services without parental consent”. Her lawyers contend that  Calgaro  has “God-given parental rights” to control her daughter’s treatment.

As well as trying to block her daughter’s treatment, the controlling mother is trying to get the Court to “affirm her parental rights over her minor children” – even though she has no contact with her daughter.

The suit targets the teen, St Louis County School District, the Director of St Louis County Public Health and Human Services, Fairview Health Services and Park Nicollet Health Services. It continually misgenders the daughter, who has not been named for legal reasons, throughout.

The crux of the lawsuit, filed in collusion with the anti-LGBT ‘Minnesota Child Protection League’, rests on the lack of clearly-defined procedures for emancipation under  Minnesota law, with Calgaro attempting to negate the process and reclaim parental responsibility.

Much of the details of the girl’s case have not been made public

But David Edwards of Minnesota trans support group Transforming Families told NBC News: “Most of our families have the opposite problem, where they’re trying to access care that they have a hard time getting approved because it’s being denied in the first place.

“If a child gets to the point where they can access medical services without their parents’ consent, a lot of other stuff has happened in order to get to that point.

“Medical providers aren’t just handing out medication and services without parental consent — that’s unheard of.”

