Dallas transgender woman attacked by angry mob in horrifying video

Dallas police have opened a hate crime probe after a transgender woman was violently attacked by several people.

A clip went viral of the incident on Friday (April 12), appearing to show a mob violently assaulting 23-year-old Muhlaysia Booker following a traffic incident.

In the disturbing video, a large crowd can be seen gathering as Booker is repeatedly punched and kicked by several men.

At one point Booker attempts to stumble away, but is again set upon by the men, before being dragged along the ground away from the incident.

Booker, who told WFAA that her attackers used anti-LGBT slurs during the incident, was hospitalised with facial fractures and an injury to her right arm.

Dallas police are investigating the incident as a potential hate crime.

A spokesperson told ABC: “The Department is investigating this offense and reviewing all available evidence to determine if it will be classified as a hate crime.”

Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings said: “Chief Hall alerted me this morning to the assault at the Royal Crest Apartments and I have seen a video of what happened. I am extremely angry about what appears to be mob violence against this woman.

“I am in contact with the chief and she assured me that the Dallas Police Department is fully investigating, including the possibility that this was a hate crime.

“Those who did this do not represent how Dallasites feel about our thriving LGBTQ community. We will not stand for this kind of behaviour.”



The clip of the incident appears to have been filmed by a bystander, and has since gone viral, receiving hundreds of thousands of views on social media.

In a Facebook post following an outpouring of support, Booker wrote: “i love yall sooo much 

“Thank you so much its a blessing being lucky enough to witness the love and respect im getting and thank you to all my genuine friends that been with me through this journey and knowing the real me knowing nobody deserves that ❤️”

It is not the first anti-LGBT crime in Dallas.

In March, a man pleaded guilty to kidnapping and conspiracy charges after using Grindr to target gay men for violent crimes.

