Elliot Page and Mae Martin got suited and booted and fans are obsessed: ‘The gorgeousness of you both’

Canadian actor Elliot Page and comedian Mae Martin have sent fans into a meltdown over an Instagram post of the two.

In the photo, which was snapped before the 2022 LACMA Art + Film Gala, the pair can be seen posing in a mirror.

The caption reads: “My King @elliotpage took me out. Thank you @gucci for the suit and @lacma for the stunning night.”

Both celebrities are wearing Gucci in the snap (and looking almost too good doing it).

The duo joined the likes of Kim Kardashian, Janelle Monae and Billie Eilish on the event’s red carpet at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.

 










View this post on Instagram






















 
A post shared by Mae Martin (@hooraymae)


 
A post shared by Mae Martin (@hooraymae)


A post shared by Mae Martin (@hooraymae)




The rest of the collection features various red carpet images of the pair, as well as a video of Elton John performing a rendition of “Rocket Man” on a red piano.

Munroe Bergdorf, fellow actor and trans icon, commented: “This photo is TOO MUCH” alongside a flame emoji on the pic.

Author Poorna Bell wrote: “The absolute gorgeousness of you both” with a heart-eyed emoji.

Actor and activist Jameela Jamil added: “Oh my god so hot” and comedian Felicity Ward followed up with a simple: “Dead thanks”.

Mae Martin is the writer and star of Feel Good, a Channel 4/Netflix comedy series. Although Martin is non-binary, their fictionalised semi-autobiographical character uses she/her pronouns, despite expressing gender uncertainty.

They are staunch trans allies, having previously offered advice to fans of Bette Middler who were hurt following Middler’s anti-trans comments.

Elliot Page is a trans actor who became the first transgender individual to appear on the cover of TIME magazine, following the announcement of his transition in December 2020.

The current season of The Umbrella Academy drew praise when it allowed his character, Vanya, to swap genders to Viktor, meaning Page did not have to continue playing a woman onscreen.

