Harry Styles just made a stunning speech about gay and transgender people

Harry Styles has made an incredible show of support for LGBT people – and fans are over the moon.

In what must be a sign of the times, the former One Direction star has delighted audiences of his first solo tour by featuring different Pride flags on stage.

During his first concert in San Francisco, he retrieved a rainbow flag partway through his song Woman and draped it prominently across his microphone stand.



He then waved it for the crowd, who loved the wordless statement of support.

And at his Washington DC gig last month, in the shadow of the White House, the singer was thrown a transgender pride flag by a member of the audience.

Styles waved it on stage – alongside a Puerto Rican flag.

The symbolism was not lost on the crowd, given President Trump’s much-criticised stances on Puerto Rico and trans issues.

And last night in Stockholm, Styles made his most explicit message yet in support of LGBT people.

After asking all his fans in the Swedish capital to join hands with each other, he launched into the emotive speech.



“If you are black, if you are white, if you are gay, if you are straight, if you are transgender – whoever you are, whoever you want to be, I support you,” he told them.

To cheers and screams of delight, he added: “I love every single one of you.”

And his followers were ecstatic.

 I LOVE HIM WITH ALL OF MY HEART pic.twitter.com/b6IS1HH7A6
— rainbow sel (@loveislikepizza) November 5, 2017

— rainbow sel (@loveislikepizza) November 5, 2017



Earlier this year, the global megastar opened up about his sexuality.

He said: “It’s weird for me – everyone should just be who they want to be.

“It’s tough to justify somebody having to answer to someone else about stuff like that.”

He backed Wrecking Ball singer Miley Cyrus for coming out as pansexual, saying: “Being in a creative field, it’s important to be progressive.

“People doing stuff like that is great.”

When asked if he has ever labelled himself, he said: “No, I’ve never felt the need to really. No.

“I don’t feel like it’s something I’ve ever felt like I have to explain about myself.”

Styles is currently on a tour which will include more than 80 shows across four continents.

We can’t wait to hear his next message of support.

Watch Harry’s speech here: 

Harry Styles is too good for this world
”Every single one of you tonight – If you are black, if you are white, if you are gay, if you are straight, if you are transgender. Whoever you are, whoever you wanna be. I support you. I love every single one of you“ pic.twitter.com/s2SYnNsIcz
— olivelouie ◟̽◞̽ (@janejonsxx) November 5, 2017

”Every single one of you tonight – If you are black, if you are white, if you are gay, if you are straight, if you are transgender. Whoever you are, whoever you wanna be. I support you. I love every single one of you“ pic.twitter.com/s2SYnNsIcz
— olivelouie ◟̽◞̽ (@janejonsxx) November 5, 2017

— olivelouie ◟̽◞̽ (@janejonsxx) November 5, 2017



