InfoWars host Alex Jones ‘caught looking at transgender porn’ despite anti-trans rants

Eagle-eyed viewers have questions for InfoWars host Alex Jones, after he appeared to unwittingly reveal he enjoys watching transgender-themed porn.

The online conspiracy theory pundit has been banned from a string of social media outlets over his “hate-filled rants” towards people who are transgender, Muslims and immigrants.

But despite his extreme beliefs about transgender people, Jones showed off far more than he intended while plugging health supplements on InfoWars this week.

Jones was showing users how to navigate the outlet’s website on his own iPhone when he accidentally hit the button to change tabs, opening up the list of other pages he had open.

Among the tabs was one that appeared to show a pornographic video titled “Naughty Tbabe Mistress,” which features a transgender woman.



The clip stars Marissa Minx, who describes herself as “Australia’s #1 Trans Companion/XXXAdult Model” on social media.

Minx has retweeted several posts mocking Jones after the slip, with one saying: “He’s a c**t, but he’s a c**t with taste.”

Others branded him a hypocrite for watching transgender-themed pornography while publicly expressing his extreme hatred of transgender people.



Facebook and YouTube were among the social media giants to have banned Jones for repeatedly violating rules on anti-transgender hate speech.

Jones previously ranted about a transgender man who has publicly opened up about giving birth.

He said: “We’ve got insanity in this hour… we’ve got British man, who ‘makes history’ by giving birth to baby daughter.

“When I read the headline, I said, it’ll be a woman that thinks she’s a man that had a baby. And sure enough, it was. Because they haven’t produced artificial wombs that work properly.”

The conspiracy theorist said: “They still got to use cows to grow humanoids and clones.

“They say it’s a man. It’s fraud! It’s not that I hate mentally ill people.

“If somebody wants to go be a woman or be a tranny, if it’s a gay guy and wants to go pick up more guys, you want to go get breast implants and doll your hair up, knock yourself out. I’m all for freedom.”

He screamed: “The media runs with it that a man had a baby – no a woman had a baby. A woman had a baby. A woman had a baby. A woman! A woman! A woman!

“Just like male and female whales, male and female rabbits, male and female praying mantises, male and female bats, male and female tigers. Back up.

“This is mass mental illness saying that you’re biologically a man when you’re a woman and you’ve got a uterus. It’s like the South Park piece where he thinks he’s a dolphin.”

Jones has  also previously called for drag queens to be burned alive and claimed transgender people are building cyborgs to destroy civilisation.

He claimed: “The most protected class are going to be augmented humans—cyborgs, you name it. And you’re going to have humanoids, which again isn’t a man and a woman with the chromosomes splicing together.

“It’s not a human. It’s something different when you’ve got three parents. And you say, ‘Oh, we just changed some genes over here.’ It changes the whole deal, especially if you start mixing two women.

“They’re creating new lifeforms and they’re just creating a stampede where you don’t criticise that.

“It’ll be like the national religion to go ‘L3Q943ABCQPBLV543Z92 dot dot dot 34Q5974. I mean, it’s just total mental illness, but it’s how you destroy a civilization.”

