JK Rowling takes on Donald Trump after he bans transgender people from the military

JK Rowling has a history of tearing apart Donald Trump in the best ways possible.

She took Trump down with style earlier this month, responding to his infamous CNN wrestling tweet with a quote from George Washington.

And last month, the world’s first billionaire writer took the President to task after Trump’s attack on London Mayor Sadiq Khan following a terror attack on the capital.

So when the commander-in-chief suddenly announced his ban on transgender people serving in the military yesterday, the Harry Potter author was ready.

The ban, announced yesterday by Trump in three tweets, sparked outrage from LGBT people across the world and was condemned by everyone from former Vice President Joe Biden to acting star Laverne Cox.

The positions of 15,000 trans people in the military are now in immediate danger.

Rowling compared Trump’s smiling face to a frog’s, saying: “Well, kudos to Aesop.

“It turns out ‘The Frogs Who Desired a King’ wasn’t a fable, it was an actual bloody prediction.”

She then turned her Trump-associated rage on Tomi Lahren, a right-wing US pundit who called the Equality March in Washington, DC, a “crock of crap”.

Lahren wrote: “Pres Trump dedicated to putting radical Muslims in graves whereas Pres Obama was dedicated to putting men in the ladies room.”

In response, Rowling had a sarcastic comeback for the ages.



“Truly, whom amongst us can forget Trump ordering the killing of bin Laden?” she asked.

“Or Obama bragging about barging in on naked beauty contestants?”

Truly, whom amongst us can forget Trump ordering the killing of bin Laden? Or Obama bragging about barging in on naked beauty contestants? pic.twitter.com/1veorstvA0
— J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) July 27, 2017

— J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) July 27, 2017



Transgender Navy SEAL Team 6 member Kristin Beck, who served for 20 years in the unit whose troops killed Osama bin Laden, challenged Trump to tell her that she was “not worthy” to her face.

The ban was announced despite the revelation that the Pentagon spends 10 times more on erectile dysfunction medication than it would on trans medical expenses.

The American Civil Liberties Union vowed to fight back against Trump’s decision by representing anyone affected by the ban.

And former Vice President Joe Biden said: “Every patriotic American who is qualified to serve in our military should be able to serve. Full stop.”

