Kim Davis lawyer ‘taking a gun to women’s toilet’ to scare off transgender ‘perverts’

One of the lawyers who represented Kim Davis is taking a Glock handgun into the women’s toilets, just in case there are any transgender women in there.

Hardline Republicans are using trans bathroom rights as a ‘wedge issue’ to attack LGBT rights across the US, with a number of ‘bathroom bills’ aiming to stop trans people from using their preferred toilet.

One vile ad even depicted a man raping a little girl in a toilet. Rape, unsurprisingly, is a crime in all 50 states… but that hasn’t stopped one anti-LBGT lawyer from rallying against the law.

Anita Staver, the president of the right-wing Liberty Counsel which represented Kentucky clerk Kim Davis, tweeted that she will take a handgun into public toilets in future after Target affirmed a trans-inclusive bathroom policy.

Ms Staver tweeted: “I’m taking a Glock .45 to the ladies room. It identifies as my bodyguard. #BoycottTarget”.


She  added: “I want protection from the perverts who will use the law to gain access to women.”

Her hubby Mat Staver is more well-known as the group’s chairman and public face.

A CBS investigation recently found the fingerprints of the Liberty Counsel on many of the bils targeting LGBT anti-discrimination protections and transgender bathroom rights that have been obligingly filed by Republican lawmakers across the US.

It found that the group’s leader Mat Staver, who had appeared countless times with Davis, had helped Republican lawmakers draft legislation for conservative lawmakers in at least 20 states.

He admitted: “There’s certainly a thread of information that is similar and the same… they all have the same intent and that is to protect religious freedom.”

“It is only about being free to pursue your faith. We have no interest in discriminating against anyone.”

But he insisted the gays and liberals were all to blame, continuing: “The Supreme Court in the 5-4 opinion on marriage in 2015 lit the house on fire.

“All we’re trying to do is control the fire at this point in time.”

