Kim Kardashian and Caitlyn Jenner not speaking after transgender star insulted Kris Jenner

Caitlyn Jenner has revealed that she and Kim Kardashian are not on speak terms.

The pair used to have a close relationship, but ever since Caitlyn spoke out against her ex, Kris Jenner, Kim has lost touch.

In her frequent media appearances to promote the book, Jenner has been harshly critical about her ex-wife’s struggles to accept her transition. On Keeping Up With the Kardashians, Kris Jenner trashed the book as “made up”.



Speaking on Australian TV, the transgender star said she hadn’t spoken to Kim “in a long time”. 

She told Australia’s Today Show: ”I love Kimberly, I think she’s a wonderful person. 

“But, well, to be honest with you – I really haven’t talked to her in a long time. 

“I’ve kind of let everything calm down. So I kind of stay – you know, I keep my distance. 

“I’m out there trying to make a difference in the world. There’s a lot of drama in the Kardashian family. 

“This is my book about my opinions on things that had happened with me and my family. 

“Any time I express my opinion, you know, with my family, there’s always challenges in doing that.”

Reality star Kim K recently appeared on the Ellen Show and had similarly negative comments to make about her mother’s ex-husband.

In the interview Kim reacted to Caitlyn Jenner’s upcoming book, a “tell-all” that discusses her transition to female.



Speaking to Ellen, Kim Kardashian said: “My heart breaks for my mom, you know? I feel like she’s been through so much and [Caitlyn]’s promoting this book and she’s saying all these things.

“I don’t think it’s necessary and I just feel like it’s unfair, things aren’t truthful.”

She continued: “She’s not being honest] about some thing about my mom, and other things. I feel like it’s taken her a really long time to be honest with herself, but it’s just so hurtful. I wish her all the success in the world, but not at our expense.”

Asked if the family still have a relationship with Jenner, she said: “For Kendall and Kylie, that’s their dad.

“My mom’s been so respectful for so long, always wanting Caitlyn around and always wanting a great relationship with Caitlyn, but… I haven’t talked to her in a couple weeks.

“I’ll always love her. That was my stepdad for so many years. She taught me about character growing up, and I just feel like I don’t respect the character she’s showing now.”

Kim continued: “I’ll always have a major love for her for who she was in my life.

“I want to be respectful, but I feel there’s no need for a book bashing other people. I think it’s not tasteful.”



The choice of the Ellen Show for the interview is noteable, given Caitlyn Jenner claimed in her book that she was “alienated” by Ellen DeGeneres over her stance on same-sex marriage.

Jenner wrote: “I believed, as anyone would, that that was exactly what she wanted to talk about – my progression in terms of changing attitude over the years.

“This discussion further alienated me from members of the LGBTQ community.

“Ellen’s appearance on The Howard Stern Show, where in my mind she even more emphatically took what I said out of context, made it go viral.”

She became a huge hit and was celebrated for the bravery of going through the experience so publicly.

However her TV series, I Am Cait, flopped in its second season, following a string of positive comments about the Republicans and Donald Trump that alienated some of her core fans.

Jenner had originally offered herself as a trans ambassador for the Trump administration.

Her adoration for Trump did not last, however.

When the president repealed an Obama era protection for trans people using the bathroom, Jenner hit out at Trump, writing: “From one Republican to another, this is a disaster.

“You made a promise to protect the LGBTQ community. Call me.”

