Liam Payne posts passionate defence of LGBT people after Donald Trump transgender ban

Former One Direction star Liam Payne has shared an emphatic defence of the LGBT community following Donald Trump’s trans ban.

The British singer took to Instagram to post the message, which we said as for LGBT people.

It comes days after President Trump said Trans troops will be barred from serving.

Sharing a moving quote from Thomas Jefferson on Instagram, Liam captioned his post: “Thomas Jefferson#lgbtqrights.”

The quote read: “We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”



Payne faced accusations of homophobia while in boy band 1D.

He spoke out about a supposed romance between Louis Tomlinson and Harry Styles in an interview with Attitude magazine before the band split.

He said: “When the [gay marriage] law changed in the US, there were loads of rainbow flags flying at our shows, but I think that was mainly because people think of the Louis and Harry thing, which is absolutely nuts and drives me insane.

“It’s like when you know the ins and outs of what’s going on with people, it’s just annoying when it’s so stupid…It becomes like a conspiracy or a cult.”



Payne added: “He’s very happy about becoming a dad. But the funny thing is, there are some people out there who think that Louis getting Briana pregnant is fake.

“That’s it’s not real; it’s a cover up. And that’s the sort of s–t that gets to me. But you have to hold your tongue and that’s fine.”

Some of the band’s fans voiced their disapproval on Twitter after the remarks, with some saying they were “disappointed” with his candid comments.

However, Payne hit back: “It’s funny I thought people appreciated honesty these days.”

Last month Payne took to Twitter to refute claims that he is homophobic, after controversial comments at a One Direction live show in Columbus, Ohio.

Liam Payne previously praised “the family values” of the notoriously homophobic stars of reality show Duck Dynasty, after a homophobic rant from the family’s patriarch.

Duck Dynasty’s Phil Robertson claimed that sexually transmitted infections are God’s punishment for gays. This year he gave an Easter Sermon claiming that “sexually immoral” homosexuals will burn in hell.

