Marvel seeking its first transgender superhero

US film company Marvel Studios are reportedly casting “transgender actresses only” for a new role in the franchise.

The casting call for “Jessica” reportedly is looking for a trans woman of any ethnicity in her twenties or thirties.

On Sunday (July 29), Pose actress Angelica Ross tweeted, “Ummmm Marvel? They keep asking if I’m joining the family. You want to tell ‘em? #MarvelStudios.”

Ummmm @Marvel? They keep asking if I’m joining the family. You want to tell ‘em? #MarvelStudios pic.twitter.com/f0uXMavjih
— Angelica Ross (@angelicaross) July 29, 2019

— Angelica Ross (@angelicaross) July 29, 2019



Ross has previously been open about wanting to join the Marvel franchise, saying in a Jezebel interview last year: “I’m trying to manifest me being in the Black Panther sequel.”

Geeks Worldwide, who first reported the story, have speculated that the character could be Sera, from Thor: Love and Thunder — Marvel’s only existing trans woman superhero.

“The role is for an upcoming Marvel Studios project that is filming sometime in 2020, and thus the possible options are ‘Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings’, ‘Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness’, ‘Loki’, ‘Hawkeye’, or ‘Thor: Love and Thunder’,” Geeks Worldwide said.

“Perhaps Sera will be the queen Valkyrie is looking for, if not Jane Foster herself.”

Valkyrie, the first official LGBT+ superhero in the Marvel universe, is played by Tessa Thompson.

Following on from the studio’s trailblazing panel at San Diego Comic-Con on Saturday 20 July, producer Kevin Feige told io9 that the character — who was appointed King of Asgard by her pal Thor at the end of Avengers: Endgame – will definitely have a queer storyline when she’s next seen on the big screen.

Following on from the studio’s trailblazing panel at San Diego Comic-Con on Saturday 20 July, he told io9 that the character — who was appointed King of Asgard by her pal Thor at the end of Avengers: Endgame — will definitely have a queer storyline when she’s next seen on the big screen.

“As new king, she needs to find her queen,” she told excited fans that had gathered in the prestigious Hall H. “That will be her first order of business. She has some ideas. Keep you posted.”

