Michele Bachmann: God intervened in the election so Trump could stop transgender rights

Former congresswoman Michele Bachmann has claimed that Donald Trump’s election victory was a “supernatural” intervention by God to stop protections for transgender people.

In his first 100 days as President, Trump has already axed Obama-era guidance on transgender rights, taking an axe to education policies which had extended civil rights protections to transgender children in schools.

He also dropped federal government opposition to state-level anti-LGBT laws, and helped kick a Supreme Court case over discrimination protections into the long grass.

Bachmann, an ultra-conservative Republican who served as a member of the United States House of Representatives from Minnesota until 2015, has claimed that God made a “supernatural” intervention in the election to secure Trump’s victory.

Speaking on ‘Understanding the Times with Jan Markell’, she claimed: “We know that [Trump’s election] just wasn’t in the natural. This was in the supernatural where God sovereignly, I believe, answered the prayers of believers beseeching him and he’s given us a reprieve.”

Of course, many people sensed the mysterious hands of an unknown power interfering in the US election, but most of them have concluded that it was the Russian government  – or the electoral college system that allowed Trump to gain power with three million fewer votes than his opponent.

But Bachmann is certain it was actually God.

In the clip transcribed by Right Wing Watch, she explained: “This was the last exit ramp for the country and if we were not going to see a political change,

“We were in a situation where the president of the United States on his own just issued a sheet of paper and said, overnight, every single public school in the country would have to have the girls’ bathrooms open to the boys and the boys’ bathrooms open to the girls.

“What we were told from the White House, is that when we look at our body in a shower, our body isn’t reality anymore, so we actually get to choose if we’re a boy, if we’re a girl, if we’re one of like 58 different whatever that we decide we want to be that day.

“In other words, we were all told that we were forced to repeat a lie, not the truth… and when you repeat lies, Romans 1 tells us, that’s when you fall into deception, God’s gives us over to our own delusion.

“[But]  we were given a reprieve… God has privileged us in this country that we get to be able to vote for the laws and the people we live under so people decided to take that vote. It was completely unprobable… I know it was a reprieve.”



The former politician who served on Donald Trump’s Evangelical Advisory Board during the election, has grown steadily more extreme and disturbing in her public statements.

Earlier this year she claimed that gay people are working alongside Islamist terrorists and the Black Lives Matter movement to undermine American values.

Ms Bachmann claimed in 2014: “I think [gays] want to abolish age of consent laws, which means we will do away with statutory rape laws so that adults would be able to freely prey on little children sexually. That’s the deviance that we’re seeing embraced in our culture today.”


A 2011 investigation found a religious counselling centre owned by Ms Bachmann attempts gay ‘cure’ therapy and aims to repress “homosexual urges”. Her husband, Marcus Bachmann, ran the service.

She has also claimed that God would destroy America because of the “sin-sick” culture of same-sex marriage.

