Netflix to release documentary about transgender girl in 190 countries

Netflix is planning a worldwide release for a documentary about a transgender six-year-old girl.

It was announced today that the online streaming giant has acquired the documentary ‘Growing Up Coy’, which follows the journey of six-year-old schoolgirl Coy Mathis.

Mathis’ case sparked the war over transgender bathroom rights when her family launched a lawsuit against a Colorado school district, after school officials refused to allow Coy to use the girls’ bathrooms.

The Colorado Supreme Court eventually ruled that the treatment was discriminatory, and that Mathis should be allowed to use facilities appropriate to her gender identity.

The film, which will be released globally on Netflix on January 6, follows the Mathis family through the case and their day-to-day life.

A statement says: “We are thrilled for NETFLIX to release ‘Growing Up Coy’ into 190 countries.

“This is a real opportunity for people across the US and the world to watch this film at a time when so many ‘bathroom bills’ and policies are being considered by lawmakers and school administrators who may have very little first-hand knowledge of the transgender experience.

“Not to mention our Supreme Court justices will weigh in on the issue this March or April!”

Director Eric Juhola told Deadline: “”I don’t think there’s any other distributor that could get it in front of that many eyes on the same day.

“We’re very excited. The whole point of making this film was to try to make a difference in trans rights and trans youth rights.

“One of the ways to do that is for people to actually see the film and get an understanding of the transgender experience.

“When we were doing our festival tour, we learned that coming to a screening in a public place can be very intimidating for transgender people.

“So by being able to live-stream the film in their living rooms, it gives those who feel that way a safe place to view it, especially in states and countries where there are anti-transgender laws and discrimination.”



