Pilot charged for removing transgender woman’s testicles

A pilot has been charged with reckless assault and practising medicine without a licence for removing a trans woman’s testicles. 

James Pennington, an airline captain based at Chicago O’Hare posted $50,000 bond in the case. 



Prosecutors said the 57-year-old had removed the woman’s testicles at her apartment. 

On Tuesday the Denver district attorney on Tuesday filed the charges. 

The trans woman’s wife noticed a few hours after the surgery that there was blood pouring from the wound. 

Police were called after paramedics attended, but the trans woman wrote a letter saying she was not a victim and defending him. 

“I am here to verify that I am indeed a victim. However, I am not a victim of 57-year-old James Lowell Pennington who is the suspect in this case,” she wrote.

“I am a victim of a society and healthcare system that focuses on trying to demonise transgender people and prevent us from getting the medical transition we need instead of trying to do what is best for us.

“Do not paint me as a victim of naivety or obsession and do not paint Mr Pennington as a monster.”

She says the system forced her to turn to the “back alley” procedure. 

The trans woman, who signed the letter “Jane Doe,” wrote: “The man who did the operation on me was arrested, and shortly after that his name was released to the press who have now released several stories painting the man as a monster and me as a victim

A trans teen, Symone Marie Jones, died after receiving silicone injections from an unlicensed plastic surgeon. 

42-year-old Kavonceya Iman Cornelius used non-medical grade silicone which “cut” the lungs of the 19-year-old.

A transgender man in California recently launched a lawsuit against the Mercy San Juan Centre hospital because they refused to perform gender reassignment surgery on him. 

Evan Michael Minton was seeking out a hysterectomy but was refused on the basis of the hospital’s ties to the Catholic church.

