PinkNews reader identifies women who publicly attacked transgender man in front of their kids

PinkNews Exclusive
Two women who publicly attacked a transgender man in front of young children are thought to have been identified.

Naith Payton, 28, alleges he was called a “faggot” and a “boy with tits” by the women while travelling on a London Overground train.

According to a shocking video of the incident, the women yelled foul-mouthed insults at the professional chef, before smashing his phone.

They then ordered the young children to join in, telling them to “shout at him and tell him he’s bad,” according to the victim’s account.

A PinkNews reader has now identified the two women, who we are choosing not to name at this stage.



Facebook profiles under the names given to PinkNews match the images of the women featured in the video.

British Transport Police say they are investigating the incident.

Mr Payton took to Facebook the following day to share video of his ordeal, which took place between Willesden Junction and Kensington Olympia in west London.

In the clip, one of the women is heard shouting: “What the f***’s it got to do with you?”

She adds: “Don’t ever try to push me on my f****** kids. You dirty little wrong ‘un.”



Mr Payton told PinkNews: “Nothing like this has happened to me before, and it was very upsetting to be made to feel unsafe so close to where I live.

“It was also a reminder that homophobia and transphobia are still a real problem.”



Recalling the incident, he said: “When they got on the train, they were swearing, and using slurs, and there were some children on the train, including their own.

“One of them, the blonde woman, was repeatedly yelling ‘you f***ing prick’ down the phone, while her daughter was sitting in her lap.

“I asked them to stop swearing, since there were kids around, and they turned on me.

“I didn’t get the worst of what they said on camera, but it was very homophobic and transphobic – they called me a ‘faggot’, a ‘f***ing gay boy’ and a ‘boy with tits’.

“They also consistently misgendered me, as you can hear in the video.”

Witnesses can contact the force by texting 61016 quoting reference 505 04/06/2017. 

