Presidential hopeful worried transgender kids might molest his daughters in the shower

Presidential hopeful Ted Cruz has explained that he opposes basic equality for transgender people because he thinks trans kids will molest his daughters.

The Republican Senator is a notorious opponent of LGBT rights, but has been tacking even further right in recent weeks in a bid to gain ground on frontrunner Donald Trump.

Speaking to EWTN, he claimed that trans equality protections in schools would leave his daughters at risk.

The Presidential hopeful claimed: “Well, look… this is ridiculous.

“It shows just how radical and extreme the current administration is.

“You know, I’m the father of two little girls. Caroline and Catherine are seven and five. I don’t want my daughters taking showers with little boys – I don’t want them when they’re in junior high or high school.

“And it’s absurd, no parents do. And these are zealots.”

 

Perhaps he should be more worried about fellow candidate Mike Huckabee – who has ‘joked’ he wishes he were transgender to spy on teenage girls in the showers.

Huckabee claimed earlier this year: “I wish that someone told me that when I was in high school that I could have felt like a woman when it came time to take showers in PE.

“I’m pretty sure that I would have found my feminine side and said, ‘Coach, I think I’d rather shower with the girls today’.”

Cruz continued: “The acting head of the civil rights division refused to disagree with this proposition. She was asked, is the justice department going to begin persecuting school districts that say little boys and little girls don’t have to shower together?

“She refused to answer those questions. It is radical and extreme.

“We should do a number of things about it… I have pledged that if I am elected President, in the opening days I will direct the Department of Education that [education initiative] Common Core ends. But beyond that… I think we should abolish the federal Department of Education.”

In recent weeks, Cruz falsely claimed that a shooter who attacked a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado was a “transgendered leftist activist”.

He did not apologise when it emerged his claim was factually incorrect – nor when it was confirmed to be entirely false.

Cruz has also blamed gay soldiers for low military morale – and repeatedly pledged to void all same-sex weddings federally.

Watch the clip below:


