Queer Eye will be making over a transgender man in season two

The Queer Eye fab five have given a few more tantalising details about season two, revealing that trans men will be made over for the first time.

In March it was announced that the rebooted makeover show, which has won the hearts of audiences across the world, will be coming back for a second helping after its all-too-brief first run.

The cast of Queer Eye, which makes its return on June 15, recently revealed some more details about the subjects of the upcoming season, which will also feature a woman for the first time. 

In an interview with Entertainment Weekly, the fab five opened up about one of the people featured in season two – Skyler, a trans man.

Jonathan Van Ness, the show’s resident hair and beauty icon, stressed the need to do the episode well.

Van Ness said: “One of my closest friends is a trans man who is incredible. And a lot of my clients are trans women. So I am really hoping that we can do right by our trans brothers and sisters.

“[Skyler] is going through so much, so [it was important to be] gentle and respectful and not to be a queenie know-it-all dum-dum when you’re trying to be a loving person.”

Tan France, the fashion expert of the reboot, echoed the need for respect and stated how the episode could educate people.

France said: “I wasn’t as informed for Skyler… I think that LGBTQ people are lumped into a group, and many people assume that I’m in the struggle with everybody else in my group, but I really don’t.



Related: Queer Eye’s Bobby Berk really does do more work than the other guys

“Watching that episode, I felt like we did it respectfully and appropriately where we could ask the questions that probably so many people have wanted to or those questions that have gone unanswered.”

France added: “Skyler, for me, is my favourite episode we’ve ever done. I love the others, I truly do. But I wasn’t as informed for Skyler.

Karamo Brown, a passionate advocate for many social issues, pinpointed the importance of cutting through political arguments about trans rights.

He said: “I think as a culture, people need to get away from the bathroom stuff and realise that these are just human beings trying to live their lives, and it’s something that we all take for granted.

“Hearing Skyler, the first time I got to talk to him, say, ‘I tried to get my license several times.’ Think about if you were just trying to go to the airport, and you could not get on [the plane] because your license said something different.

“It’s just about people living a comfortable, protected, respected life.”

Queer Eye creator David Collins had previously hinted that the show – which changed its name from the original ‘Queer Eye for the Straight Guy’ – would live up to its more inclusive name in season two with a range of diverse participants.

In March he said: “The cool part about it is our episodic heroes continue to be diverse and very interesting. The storylines continue to break down those conversations and surprise you.

“We get to see a lot of those new perspectives.”

Queer Eye returns to our screens June 15.

