Spectator columnist claims MPs are trying to turn kids transgender

A Spectator columnist has claimed that Tory MP Maria Miller is trying to turn unsuspecting children transgender.

Former Mail journalist Melanie Phillips wrote the column after Parliament’s Women and Equalities Committee, chaired by Conservative MP Maria Miller, released a landmark report on trans issues this month.

The report suggested that trans people are being let down in a range of ways – but it has been slammed by some anti-trans and radical feminist groups for proposing a legislative overhaul of gender recognition and treatments.

In her Spectator column, Ms Phillips accused the MP of trying to promote transgenderism as a “lifestyle choice”.

She wrote: “Miller and her colleagues do two things: display callous denial of the tragic condition of such unfortunates, and set up the basis for state-mandated coercion.

“Their prime target, of course, will be children, whose young minds can be so easily manipulated.

“Trans and gender issues, says the committee, should be taught in schools as part of personal, social and health education.

“We can all predict what will happen. Gender fluidity will be actively promoted as just another lifestyle choice.

“Under the commendable guise of stopping the minute number of transgender children being bullied, the rest of the class will be bullied into accepting the prescribed orthodoxy — that gender is mutable, and any differentiation in value between behaviour or attitudes is bigoted and prohibited.

“The intention is to break down children’s sense of what sex they are and also wipe from their minds any notion of gender norms.”


She also referenced the backlash recieved by feminist Germaine Greer, after she made a foul-mouth rant about transgender women.

Greer, who has long spoken out against “man’s delusion that he is female”,  had said: “Just because you lop off your d**k and then wear a dress doesn’t make you a f***ing woman.”

Phillips wrote: “Many didn’t know whether to be amused or bemused when the feminist ideologue Germaine Greer was attacked by other progressives for claiming that transgender men who became women after medical treatment were still men.

“What started as a baffling skirmish on the wilder shores of victim culture has now turned into something more menacing.”

She also claimed: “These MPs are turning gender confusion from a health issue into a political statement to be enforced.

“So of course they also want to turn denying or questioning gender fluidity into a hate crime. “

