Stephanie Hirst will be the voice of Channel 4 to mark International Transgender Day of Visibility

Stephanie Hirst will become the voice of Channel 4 to mark International Transgender Day of Visibility on Friday.

The radio and TV presenter will follow in the footsteps of Amy Stanning, who Channel 4 made the first ever trans continuity announcer in the UK last year, on the same day.

The annual global event aims to celebrate trans lives through a positive lens, rather than focusing on the downsides.

Hirst has hosted some of the most successful radio shows in the UK, most famously spending three years on Hit40UK.

She said: “It is so important to mark International Transgender Day of Visibility, helping educate society that trans people can be, and should be wholly accepted in all areas of their lives for whom they truly are.

“Alongside this, it is a true honour to share my positive story with Channel 4 viewers,” she added.



The trans icon led Hirsty’s Daily Dose, a breakfast show on Capital FM Yorkshire, before she came out as trans on live national radio in October 2014 and quit the show.



She said she considered suicide on several occasions before deciding on what she has called “the biggest risk I will ever take – to transition from male to female.”

Hirst is the latest contributor to Channel 4’s project to provide a spotlight to underrepresented groups in society, called Alternative Voices.

The LGBT activist, who has also presented on BBC Breakfast and BBC Radio 5 Live, will take command of Channel 4’s continuity messages from 6pm, going into The Simpsons.

She will stay on air until First Dates at 11:10pm, with Channel 4 promising Hirst will “share her personal experiences” to spread awareness for International Transgender Day of Visibility.

Dan Brooke, Channel 4’s communications officer, said he was “thrilled” to have secured Hirst this year.

“Diversity is the lifeblood of Channel 4 and it’s important we champion and hear all voices on the channel,” he added.

