Stonewall sets up trans advisory board to guide transgender campaign work

Stonewall has recruited a number of transgender people to join its new Trans Advisory Board – as the organisation begins campaigns on trans issues.

The rights charity has historically only campaigned on issues of lesbian, bisexual and gay rights – but following an extensive consultation, earlier this year it expanded its remit to also cover trans issues.

The charity has this week set up the Stonewall Trans Advisory Group – which will guide its work on trans issues, as it makes its campaigns trans-inclusive and forms new trans-focussed campaigns.

It includes a number of renowned trans campaigners – including Helen Belcher of Trans Media Watch, former Lib Dem councillor Sarah Brown, RAF pilot Ayla Holdom, Gender and Sexual Diversity specialist Alex Drummond.

A release said: “The Stonewall Trans Advisory Group reflects a diverse range of trans voices and experiences, with members representing a range of ethnic backgrounds, religions, experiences and trans identities.

“It will help shape the strategic direction of the organisation and its work with, and for, trans communities.

“Stonewall will also provide training and development opportunities for members of the group to develop their skills in areas including campaigning, political lobbying and working with the media.”

 

Stonewall Chief Executive Ruth Hunt said: “Recruiting an advisory group is a vital part of our journey to becoming fully trans inclusive.

“We’re thrilled to have such a diverse range of experiences and backgrounds in this group to work in partnership with us, and to help ensure that trans issues and voices are cemented in everything we do.”

Stonewall also says it is “working closely” with trans group Gendered Intelligence to integrate trans issues and experiences into its educational materials and training – as well as recruiting trans-focussed staff.

The charity is also set to recruit a dedicatd Director of Trans Integration and Trans Policy Officer.

