Student eats Bible pages to protest anti-trans bigot Matt Walsh’s campus visit

A group of pro-LGBTQ+ activists put their money where their mouth is after eating pages of the Bible in protest of Matt Walsh’s Campus visit.

The self-proclaimed theocratic fascist and radio show host scheduled a 24 October guest lecture where he screened his anti-trans film What is a Woman? at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (U-W).

He was greeted by a group of activists protesting against his far-right rhetoric, with some saying they were ready to “collectively chase Nazis off the U-W campus.”

A clip of students tearing apart a copy of the Holy Bible then circulated across Twitter, including from the right-wing campus conference organisation Young America’s Foundation.

Pages can be seen scattered across campus grounds as several students chew on the page of the book.

Protestors have now shredded The Bible and one began eating pages pic.twitter.com/o5DACq64LP
— YAF (@yaf) October 24, 2022

— YAF (@yaf) October 24, 2022



Another clip showed protestors chanting that “trans rights are human rights” as a protestor walks across chalk messages reading “the people oppose hate” and “no fascists allowed.”

The fascist – who has previously spread baseless conspiracies that the US school system “actively recruits” children into the “LGBT ranks” – cited a message from faculty members who expressed their belief that Walsh’s views “are harmful toward our trans community” in a tweet calling them “crybabies.”

“To the UW-Madison administration – you should be ashamed of yourselves,” Walsh added. “You are disgraceful, self-debasing cowards, and you spineless, gutless clowns owe me an apology.”

He further claimed that anti-trans pundits have made “huge strides against the trans agenda” in a Friday (28 October) tweet, claiming that he wants to “ramp up” efforts to suppress trans rights.

Political philosophy researcher and trans activist Eli Erlick didn’t quite agree, replying to the tweet claiming that Walsh has “failed every campaign he’s started,” including an effort to get her removed from the University of California, Santa Cruz.

“I was never expelled from my university. The doctors he targeted are still in practice. He’s lost every single fight,” she continued.

This is funny because @MattWalshBlog has failed *every* campaign he’s started. Every single hospital he targeted still provides healthcare to trans youth. I was never expelled from my university. The doctors he targeted are still in practice. He’s lost every single fight. https://t.co/E8LwkqWThM
— Eli Erlick (@EliErlick) October 28, 2022

— Eli Erlick (@EliErlick) October 28, 2022



This isn’t close to the first time Matt Walsh has baselessly pushed trans conspiracy theories.

The fascist media personality constantly professes that being trans is a “delusion” and a “mental illness,” including in an episode of his podcast in 2021 that compared trans healthcare to experimentation, molestation, abuse, and rape.

The 24 May 2021 episode of The Matt Walsh Show saw Walsh claim that a “child who is put on hormones and who has their body being mutilated is being sexually violated in a way that is just as depraved or damaging as molestation or rape.”

This is despite the very easily researchable fact that transgender healthcare for under-18s does not involve hormone replacement therapy or gender-affirming surgeries.

The US only allows trans youth to take puberty blockers, which, according to the NHS website, are physically reversible.

 

