Teenage transgender YouTuber shares vile death threats she receives every single day

A transgender teenage YouTuber has opened up about the horrifying death threats she receives – but said she will continue making videos to help others.

Hannah Phillips is just 19-years-old and runs her own YouTube channel where she details her transition. But not all commenters have been kind.

The online death threats come after she was forced to drop out of school when she was 15-years-old due to vile transphobic bullying.

“I get negative comments on a daily basis – anything from generic death threats to direct transphobia – but it doesn’t bother me. I ignore it and carry on,” Phillips told Mail Online.

While the messages are hurtful, the transgender teenager said that she gets more positive comments.

“I get messages from people’s parents who thank me for helping them to understand whawt their child is going through, and messages from the trans community, thanking me for being so honest about what I’ve been through.”

The teenage YouTuber also revealed that she came out as trans to her parents by writing them a letter when she was 15-years-old.

I get negative comments on a daily basis – anything from generic death threats to direct transphobia – but it doesn’t bother me. I ignore it and carry on.

“The next day they spoke to me and told me they supported me and accepted my decision. My brother said exactly the same.



“As soon as I’d told them the truth it felt like a burden had been lifted and the final piece of the jigsaw had been added.”

Through her popular YouTube channel, Phillips offers advice to trans youth on topics as diverse as coming out and how to use chest binders.

In a recent video, she told her followers that being afraid of coming out as trans is “completely and utterly normal.”

“I completely understand this fear. Even though I was so certain that my parents were going to accept me, I still felt this need to run away after I gave them this note about my coming out.”

She also told her followers that “knowledge counters fear” when it comes to acceptance of trans people.

Sadly, trans people can often face violence and discrimination in the UK. A report released by LGBT+ charity Stonewall last year revealed that two in five trans people and three in ten non-binary people had experienced a hate crime or incident because of their gender identity.

