The ‘go-to’ beauty clinic for transgender women in the UK and Ireland

Thérapie Clinic is Europe’s leading aesthetic clinic with 35 clinics across the UK and Ireland.

It is the largest provider in Laser Hair Removal and Allergan injectable products such as ‘Botox’, in UK and Ireland and offers a wide selection of high-tech, non-surgical, image-enhancing procedures for both the face and body.´

From collagen stimulation to anti-wrinkle treatments; cellulite reduction to fat-freezing; Thérapie Clinic has invested in the very latest in FDA-approved technology to deliver measurable results for all clients.

With the extensive clinic rollout plan right across the UK including Manchester, Sheffield, Newcastle and of course their London expansion commencing with London Westfield (White City), Westfield Stratford and Wigmore Street; it is exciting to see how Thérapie Clinic is rapidly becoming a household name and placing itself at the forefront of the Aesthetic Industry.

Due to its impeccable brand and reputation the company has become a go-to across Scotland and Ireland within the LGBT+ community for advanced treatments.

It is important that LGBT+ clients feel comfortable when booking in for a range of treatments such as: Laser Hair Removal, Cosmeceutical and Pharmaceutical Skin Treatments, Injectable and Device led treatments.

The clinic is extremely passionate about delivering a solid five star service to every client that walks through the doors.

It is proud of the fact that all Skin and Laser specialists have been trained thoroughly on how to treat a range of different skin and hair growth concerns.

One of the most life changing procedures Thérapie Clinic offer is Laser Hair Removal to the Transgender Female Client. Some clients report that they have to shave up to three times per day, after having Laser Hair removal we can achieve up to a 60-90 percent reduction.

This reduction can significantly impact the time it takes to get ready every day, the cost spent on hair removal products or treatments, and most importantly it hugely improves an individuals’ self confidence which is the biggest reward for Therapie Clinic.

When it comes to technology and product brands, Thérapie Clinic only use the leading and most advanced brands in order to consistently stay ahead of an ever changing, fast paced industry.

It uses ‘’Botox’’ for injectables and for hair removal use Cynosure Elite Plus lasers. These are the most advanced and effective machines on the market.



The machine allows the clinic to be prescriptive with our settings, which means we can effectively treat any unwanted hair but do this in a safe way too.

When training all staff in Laser, the clinic believes it is imperative that staff are aware of how to treat Transgender Female clients with confidence and ease. This means specialists can answer all questions or concerns you may have.

If you have any questions on the treatments we provide, please know clinic specialists are available to answer all questions you may have and free consultations are on offer.

“I always found Thérapie Clinic to be very welcoming, friendly and completely non-judgemental. A fabulous service and amazing results that gives confidence to their clients. I would highly recommend them to anyone for Laser Hair Removal or ‘Botox’ treatments,” said one trans client.

