These transgender children have shared their inspiring message with millions

Five transgender children have appeared on national TV to tell people: “We’re all diamonds.”

The inspiring group of kids, aged 12 to 16, went on NBC’s morning show Megyn Kelly Today to explain to millions of viewers that being trans had made them happy.

But, they said, they didn’t want to be limited to simply being seen as trans.

The teens are part of The GenderCool Project, started by mothers Jennifer Grosshandler and Gearah Goldstein to show everyone that trans kids are “powerful, smart, talented young people”.

Landon is a 15-year-old trumpet player and artist who work explores toxic masculinity, as well as a keen political activist.

In that vein, he hit out at President Donald Trump’s moves to roll back protections, including attempts to ban trans people from joining the military and revoking Obama-era guidance which allowed students to use the bathroom matching their gender identity.

Landon said: “It’s just devastating,” but added that it was also “a push to fight harder and be louder”.

And he had an uplifting message for all the viewers at home.



“I was told early on in my experience: we’re all diamonds,” said Landon.

“We all have different sides and different faces and different angles, and each of those different parts make up the whole beautiful gem.

“One of those parts is being transgender for us, but that is not the entire diamond.”

Gesturing to his fellow guests, he continued: “We are singers, photographers, athletes, politicians, musicians – and that’s what makes us beautiful, not just being trans.

“That’s not the only thing that makes us that diamond. We’re so much more.”

Nicole, 16, dreams of appearing on Broadway one day. She agreed with Landon, saying: “We’re so much more than just trans people.”

Daniel, a 12-year-old photographer, told Megyn Kelly that a quote widely attributed to Oscar Wilde sums up his experience.

“Be yourself, everyone else is already taken,” he said, explaining that to him, it meant: “Be who you are… I can’t be Landon. I’m me.”

Gia, 14, is one of her school’s top hockey players and a star student. Before she started eighth grade, she wrote a letter to all the pupils at her new school, telling them she was trans.

She explained: “Writing a letter gave me more confidence on the first day of school. Everybody knew what was going on beforehand, instead of coming out and surprising so many people.”

Gia told Kelly that “I just wrote what I had been feeling my whole entire life. Like, ‘this is who I really am.'”

The teenager said she “got only positive messages. Everyone was very supportive.”

Watch these amazing teens tell their stories here: 


