These are the best companies for transgender people in Britain

For the first time in its history, Stonewall has released a list of the most trans-inclusive employers in the UK.

The list, which was compiled from the thoughts of 92,000 people, has marked out employers that have gone above and beyond to ensure trans and non-binary staff feel accepted.

The top 10 companies, that are ranked in no particular order, are as follows:

Baker McKenzie (law firm)
Berwin Leighton Paisner (law firm)
Cardiff University
Gentoo (housing association)
Lloyds Banking Group
National Assembly for Wales
Pinsent Masons LLP
Swansea University
The University of Manchester
Victim Support
Your Homes Newcastle



A year ago, Stonewall named Lloyds Banking Group as the UK’s most LGBT-friendly employer.

Taking a look at workplaces that updated their workplace systems to offer an Mx title, as well as a space for staff to give their own gender term on forms, the list has been compiled as “a welcome beacon of hope” for trans and non-binary people.

Trans people still face a great deal of difficulties and discrimination at work.

Half of trans people (51 per cent) have hidden their identity at work for fear of discrimination or abuse, say the LGBT+ rights charity, and one in eight trans employees (12 per cent) have been physically attacked by colleagues or customers in the past year.

‘At a time when LGBT people are subject to profound discrimination and abuse, both in and out of the workplace, our LGBT-inclusive employers are a welcome beacon of hope that a positive future is possible,” said Stonewall’s CEO Ruth Walker.

“The National Assembly for Wales is a trailblazer for equality, especially for trans equality, and we’d like other organisations to look at the straightforward, positive actions they have taken and follow the example they have set.

“Creating a workplace environment that accepts everyone isn’t just the right thing to do, it makes good business sense. When staff feel comfortable, happy and understood they will, of course, perform much better than if they’re having to hide who they are, or if they’re scared to go to work for fear of abuse. All leaders, managers – all of us as colleagues – can stand up for LGBT people in the workplace and play a part. We can all play a part in changing our workplaces and our communities so that all LGBT people are accepted without exception,” she added.

Stonewall also compiled their Top 100 LGBT+ employers list, anonymously surveying 430 organisations who took part in the charity’s Workplace Equality Index.



The Welsh National Assembly topped the list, with Pinsent Masons and Gentoo taking third and second place.

“We are truly honoured to be recognised by Stonewall as the leading employer for lesbian, gay, bi and trans people,” said Elin Jones AM, Llywydd of the National Assembly for Wales.

“The National Assembly has diversity and inclusion at the very heart of its role representing the people of Wales.

“We are proud to support our LGBT staff network and continue to work to create an inclusive culture – not only for the people who work here but for the people we represent across all Wales’ diverse communities,” they added.

