This incredible musical number by James Corden tackles Trump’s transgender military ban

James Corden has created an incredible musical number which tackles President Trump’s reasons behind the sudden ban on transgender people serving in the US military.

Basically, it comes down to one simple point.

As the singing host put it on last night’s The Late Late Show with James Corden, “Trump’s got hate for me and you.”

The ban, announced yesterday by Trump in three tweets, sparked outrage from LGBT people across the world and was condemned by everyone from former Vice President Joe Biden to acting star Laverne Cox.

The positions of 15,000 trans people in the military are now in immediate danger.

Navy SEAL Team 6 member Kristin Beck, who served for 20 years in the unit whose troops killed Osama Bin Laden, challenged Trump to tell her that she was “not worthy” to her face.

The ban was announced despite the revelation that the Pentagon spends 10 times more on erectile dysfunction medication than it would on trans medical expenses.

The American Civil Liberties Union vowed to fight back against Trump’s decision by representing anyone affected by the ban.

And Corden fought back in his own way, with a clever parody of Nat King Cole’s L-O-V-E which cut to the core of Trump’s insecurities and ignorance.

He opens the song, called L-G-B-T, with the message: “L: he doesn’t care for lesbians. G: he thinks two men should just be friends.



“B – to his dumb knowledge – is just a phase in college.

“T, he finds confusing, so the army’s now refusing trans women who only want to serve, trans men who want rights we all deserve.”

While dancing in a top hat and bow tie, he continues: “POTUS thinks it’s unsavoury – patriots who know real bravery.

“Trump’s got hate for me and you.”

He then proceeded to take apart Trump’s supposed reasoning for the ban, which relied on what he wrongly called the “tremendous medical costs” of trans people serving.

Corden sang: “Transgender troops are not a huge expense. This ban only saves that budget 0.04 percent.”

He then asked a couple of key questions, singing quizzically: “How is their disruption worse than Trump’s corruption?

“Why’s it such a crisis, thousands willing to fight ISIS?”

So why did Trump lash out at this minority again, after revoking President Barack Obama’s guidance protecting transgender students in public schools earlier this year?

Once again, Corden had the answer.

“Trump wants to seem like a manly man, overcompensating for his tiny…

“Hands” he added, cheekily.

And he closed with a message of support.

“Trans vets might be nervous, but we thank you for your service.

“We have love for all of you. LGBT: we love all of you.”

Corden also tore into Trump earlier this year, for his lack of knowledge about HIV/AIDS, in an emotional monologue.

