This emotional film about the daily struggles of transgender people has gone viral

A film about the many obstacles and microaggressions faced by trans people has gone viral.

The short, created by transgender filmmaker Jake Graf, is called Headspace, and deals with a range of trans struggles.

Writer and director Graf already has a rapidly growing list of films – including award-winning short ‘Brace’, another trans-focused story starring trans actors.

Headspace is described by Graf as “a rare and intimate glimpse into the trials and tribulations faced by trans folk on a daily basis.”

And it does just this, highlighting how normal, everyday activities for cisgender folks can be painfully difficult for transgender people.

The film’s all-trans cast includes model Laith Ashley, Captain Hannah Winterbourne of the British Army and Jake Graf himself.

Activist and model Munroe Bergdorf, who has taken a brave stand against alleged racism in beauty companies over the past two months, is also featured.

“I think there is a popular misconception that once a trans person has medically transitioned and settled into a ‘mainstream’ lifestyle, that all the struggles, challenges and discrimination simply fade away,” Graf told PinkNews.

“It was after speaking with friends who also happened to be trans that I realised that whilst many aspects of day-to-day life had eased beyond compare, certain aspects in fact became harder following transition.

“I wanted to give a glimpse into some very personal and awkward experiences that I’m sure as trans folk we all go through, but that are to some degree universal, and that we all go through now and again.”

The poignant film has been extremely well-received by fans.



Comments were celebratory, supportive and above all, grateful.

One fan on Facebook called the film “very powerful,” revealing that it made them tear up.

Others showered further praise on the short film, as well as the bravery and resilience which trans people so often show in adverse situations.

Writing a description of the film, Graf said that “Headspace offers an as-yet-unseen insight into the everyday transgender experience, and will hopefully promote much-needed acceptance and understanding.”

The film has been watched more than 4.5 million times, and is being used as an educational tool in businesses, schools, universities and even prisons worldwide.

It has also been selected for film festivals internationally.

“I’ve been amazed by the hugely positive reaction to Headspace, and the positive response from the trans community and beyond,” Graf told PinkNews.

“I hope it continues to help and inspire people for many years to come.”

Watch Headspace below:


HEADSPACE 2017 from Jake Graf on Vimeo.

