Transgender woman told she was ‘in the wrong bathroom’ at LGBT music festival

A transgender woman was confronted and told she was “in the wrong bathroom” while attending last weekend’s LoveLoud festival, which was set up to raise funds for LGBT+ youth.

Bobbee Trans Mooremon said the exchange threw her off. “There’s always a fear no matter what bathroom I go in I’m going to get yelled at or beat up. Which one do I want?” she said.

Brianna Cluck, who was attending the festival with Provo Pride, told Fox Salt Lake City that they had been assured all bathrooms would be gender inclusive. However, when she arrived, she found that only two bathrooms were marked as inclusive.

The incident resulted in two organisations – Queer Meals and Provo Pride – leaving early. Queer Meals has decided not to accept donations from LoveLoud this year, however Bobbee said they are “not angry” with festival organisers.

“We are actually trying to work with them to make sure that next year’s is even better.”

In a statement posted on Facebook, LoveLoud said they were saddened to hear that members of the LGBT+ community had “faced discrimination” at the festival.

“We have a zero-tolerance policy toward any behaviour that makes anyone feel unsafe or unwelcome. As an organisation dedicated to creating safe and affirming events for our LGBT+ friends and families, our staff, volunteers, and charity partners were asked to participate in an LGBTQ+ cultural competency training.

“We are committed to learning from our mistakes and will continuously work to improve the lives of LGBTQ+ people in our community and beyond.”

The festival was founded in 2017 by Dan Reynolds, lead singer of pop-rock band Imagine Dragons, and aims to raise funds for LGBT+ charities.

This year, the festival raised over $1 million for LGBT+ youth.



Reynolds performed at the festival with his band, and made an impassioned speech about equality on stage on Saturday night.

“I hope that tonight and today, you know, you know, that your sexuality is pure. And it’s true. And it’s clean. I hope that you know, you are needed. We need you,” he said.

“I don’t want to hear any more stories of youth taking their lives in Utah. We must change our culture. We must change the way we see each other.”

Access to bathrooms continues to be an issue for trans people across the world.

Just last week, a trans teenager from Florida was awarded $1,000 in compensatory damages after a judge ruled that his school board had discriminated against him by not allowing him to use the boys’ restroom

