Transgender charities get $20 million windfall to tackle anti-trans violence

An unprecedented $20 million windfall will be distributed to trans charities across the US and world.

Global philanthropic group the Arcus Foundation today announced a five-year initiative focused on improving the lives of transgender people worldwide.

Arcus will contribute $15 million to the fund, with a $1 million contribution from the NoVo Foundation and $4 million from other foundations.

The fund will be focussed on aiding trans charities across the US and world, to “ensure that all transgender people live in a world where they are recognized, valued, and supported by their families and in society”.

The group notes: “Funding for transgender issues remains severely limited despite recent progress made to expand support.

“Transgender causes receive less than one penny for every $100 awarded by foundations, according to a study produced by Funders for LGBTQ Issues.”

Kevin Jennings of the Arcus Foundation said: “The Global Trans Initiative is a coordinated response to the alarming and pervasive range of disparities found within transgender communities.

“Together with our partners, we are committed to delivering increased and necessary resources to those in the field working tirelessly to end the violence and discrimination facing transgender people around the world.

“Through this global effort, we aim to reach leaders in the field of philanthropy and deepen their understanding about transgender communities.

“We invite our colleagues at peer foundations to engage with us and consider integrating gender identity issues within their own funding priorities.”

Pamela Shifman, executive director of the NoVo Foundation, said: “Ending violence against girls and women everywhere has always been at the core of the NoVo Foundation’s mission, and our support for the Global Trans Initiative is an important opportunity to deepen our longstanding work.

“The epidemic of violence facing transgender women and girls across the globe is a crisis by any measure, and we are determined to partner with others to help address this urgent need.”

