Transgender troops slam Donald Trump’s military ban at VMAs

A group of transgender troops who were invited to speak at MTV’s Video Music Awards (VMAs) have slammed Trump for his ban on trans military service.

A group of four currently serving personnel and two veterans appeared at the major music awards on Sunday evening. 

So happy to honor and celebrate trans service members at the #VMAs tonight. pic.twitter.com/94uAh1CrhM
— Raymond Braun (@raymondbraun) August 27, 2017


— Raymond Braun (@raymondbraun) August 27, 2017




The group had to receive approval from the Pentagon before they could accept the formal invite from bosses of the network. 

32-year-old Jennifer Peace, who served as a captain in Afghanistan and Iraq said that she was unsure if she wanted to continue serving in the military after Trump’s 180 on trans policy. 

Speaking to Press Association, she said: “People need to care. So many people may not care about trans people serving in the military but there was a time where blacks couldn’t serve, where women couldn’t serve, where gays and lesbians couldn’t serve and there was a time when trans people couldn’t serve.

“If we start to roll that back, then our nation isn’t as safe because we need the best and brightest in our military.

“This is just such an opportunity to let people know that we only want to be discriminated against based on our performance.”

She added that it was not plausible to assume that gender identity could impact on the service of trans people.



She said: “I’ve served for 13 years, I’ve been a company commander, I’ve served in every war of my generation, I stand ready to deploy again if I’m asked to. 

“Being transgender has had no impact on it.”



MTV president Chris McCarthy said that the decision to invite the troops was easy because they are “heroes”.

“Any patriot who is putting their own life at risk to fight for our freedom and stand for equality is a hero at MTV, and to young people everywhere,” McCarthy said. 

On Friday, Trump officially and indefinitely instructed the Pentagon to ban transgender troops from serving in the US Military.

The Commander in Chief was accused of trying to pass the ban and the pardon Joe Arpaio under the radar while media outlets focus on hurricane Harvey.

He was also accused of major hypocrisy after an address he made on Monday night about the US Military in which he said there was “no room for prejudice… for bigotry.”

