Transgender sex robots are a thing now and apparently they’re very popular

A company in China is now selling female sex robots with penises and male robots with vaginas.

The China-based DS Doll has become a major player in the sex doll market, offering a custom range of full-body realistic sex dolls that can cost as much as £4,000.

The premium range of dolls can come with animatronics including talking robot heads – as well as genitals that can be mixed-and-matched and swapped out at will.

The company offers both ‘male’ and ‘female’ doll body types – but each doll’s genitals can be customised and swapped out regardless of body type.



DS Doll offers two types of penis (erect and flaccid), three different types of vagina inserts, customisable public hair and an optional anus.

Sam of Cloud Climax, which sells the dolls in Europe, told Daily Star Online that the company was aiming to cater to everyone in a market often dominated by female dolls intended for heterosexual men.



He told the newspaper: “We want to bring sex doll products into the forefront of the market and get around the prudishness and the thinking that they are just made for men.

“We have male and transgender dolls too – a lot of our customers are female and a lot are couples as well.





“We produce transgender dolls as we sell penis and vagina attachments separately which fit all of the DS Dolls.

“You can in theory mix and match genitals as most DS Dolls do not have fixed genitalia.”



He added that the company was trying to tackle the perceived “seediness” of the sex doll industry, adding: “Why should a doll not be considered a normal sex toy, like a Fleshlight? It is effectively the same thing on a larger scale.”

The newspaper also contacted a transgender charity for comment – receiving a Grade A withering reply.



Dr Jane Hamlin of the Beaumont Society told the Star: I really do not know why anyone would want to purchase any sort of ‘sex doll’ and I’m puzzled about what a ‘transgender sex doll’ might be like – and probably prefer not to know.

“I do not think these dolls will do anything to enhance people’s respect for the courage that trans people demonstrate in just living their lives every day.”

Related: Male sex robots with unstoppable bionic penises are to go on sale

