Transgender woman shot dead in brutal attack is the 27th to be killed this year

A trans woman has been murdered in Oklahoma.

Brooklyn BreYanna Stevenson, 31, is the 27th trans person to be killed this year in the US, making it by far the most deadly year on record.

Stevenson was found dead in the early hours of Monday morning, after police were called to a motel at about 2:30 a.m.

No arrests have yet been made.

Oklahoma City police spokesman Gary Knight Monday told local outlet News 4 that it’s too early in the investigation to say whether Stevenson was killed because of her gender identity.

The victim’s family released a statement saying: “We are heartbroken.

“Brooklyn BreYanna was an amazing daughter, sister and friend with a giving and loving heart.

“We pray that those who committed this heinous crime will be identified and Brooklyn will receive justice.”

Local trans advocate Paula Sophia Schonauer said: “When I found out (Monday) night, it broke my heart.”

She added: “I knew how hard she was trying and how much she was working to establish her identity and to establish a place in the world for herself.”

Troy Stevenson, the executive director of Freedom Oklahoma, said the death was of “deep concern.



“We’ve got a member of the transgender community that’s been murdered like this and it happens quite often, unfortunately.”

In October, Candace Towns was found shot to death in Macon, Georgia.

The 30-year-old’s best friend Malaysa Monroe said Towns was incredibly generous.

“If I needed anything she would give it to me.

“She would give me the clothes off her back.”

The body of Stephanie Montez, 47, was found by the road near Corpus Christi, Texas, also last month.

She had been shot in the chest, abdomen, and shoulder, the medical examiner said.

Her friend Brittany Ramirez told the Corpus Christi Caller-Times that she was shocked by the death.

“She just had a great outlook on life. She was very supportive of everyone.”

In September, transgender 17-year-old Ally Steinfeld was set on fire after she died following repeated stabbing and gouging of her eyes and genitals.

Ally’s death came just days after 21-year-old Scout Schultz, a non-binary, bisexual, intersex student at Georgia Tech, was shot dead by a campus police officer who had no crisis intervention training.

Since taking office in January, President Donald Trump has faced an avalanche of criticism for his treatment of trans people.

In February, he revoked protections for trans students.

And in August, he announced a ban on trans people serving in the military.

As well as Scout and Ally, September also saw the murder of trans woman Derricka Banner, 26, who was found fatally shot in a vehicle in Charlotte, North Carolina.



Trans man Kashmire Redd, 28, was stabbed several times and killed earlier in September, allegedly during an argument between him and Doris Carrasquillo, who he shared an apartment with.

And Redd’s death came just weeks after Kiwi Herring was shot dead by local police in Missouri.

In August, TeeTee Dangerfield was shot outside of an apartment complex in Atlanta.

The murder of Dangerfield came just days after “comedian” Lil’ Duval went on the radio show the Breakfast Club and “joked” about killing trans women.

Duval, real name Roland Powell, said that if he found out somebody was trans after having sex with them, he would kill them.

In the same month, Jaylow McGlory, a 29-year-old black trans woman, was shot and killed in Alexandria, Louisiana.

41-year-old Mesha Caldwell was shot to death in Mississippi in January.

Jamie Lee Wounded Arrow, a 28-year-old who identified as trans and two-spirit, was found dead at her home in South Dakota in January.

Joshua Rayvon LeClaire has been charged with her murder.

JoJo Striker, 23, was killed in Ohio in February.

Tiara Richmond, also known as KeKe Collier, was shot in Chicago at the age of 24, also in February.

31-year-old Chyna Doll Dupree was shot and killed in New Orleans in the same month.

She was a celebrated performer in the community.

Ciara McElveen, 31, was stabbed to death in New Orleans two days after Dupree.

Jaquarrius Holand was 18 when she was shot to death in Monroe, Louisiana – again, in February.

38-year-old Alphonza Watson was shot and killed in Baltimore, Maryland in March. She was described as the “sunshine” of her family.

Chay Reed, 28, was shot to death in April in Miami.

Brenda Bostick was a 59-year-old homeless trans woman who was found with severe injuries in Manhattan.

It’s important to note that Bostick may not have identified as trans at the time of their death, according to the family.

Sherrell Faulkner died in May at the age of 46 after being viciously attacked in November in North Carolina.

27-year-old Kenne McFadden was found dead in April in the San Antonio River.

Kendra Marie Adams (Josie Berrios) was found in dead in June with severe burns on her body. Michael Davis has been charged with the murder of the 28-year-old.

Ava Le’Ray Barrin was shot and killed in Georgia at just 17 in June.

Ebony Morgan, 28, was shot multiple times in Virginia at the start of July.

