Transgender comedian hilariously demolishes Donald Trump’s trans military ban

A transgender comedian has hilariously demolished Donald Trump’s announcement of a ban on trans people serving in the military.

The ban, announced by Trump earlier this week in three tweets, sparked outrage from LGBT people across the world and was condemned by everyone from former Vice President Joe Biden to John McCain, Laverne Cox and JK Rowling.

Patti Harrison appeared on Jimmy Fallon’s The Tonight Show yesterday, and wasted no time launching her brilliant, scathing attacks on the President.

After calling Trump “so stupid,” she said that “when I saw the headline this morning, at first I just read ‘Donald Trump bans transgender people’.

“And I was like, ‘Yeah, that sounds like him.’ But then I realised it was just in the military, and I was shocked – because I assumed he already did that.”

To laughs from the audience, she continued: “Now, I don’t necessarily want to serve in the military, but I want the right to serve.

“You know – it’s like, I don’t want to go to your baby shower, but I want the invite.

“But, you know, I don’t even think Trump knows what transgender means. He probably thinks transgender people are those cars that turn into robots.”

On a serious note, she told Fallon – who generally steers well clear of political discussion on his show – that the military would be worse off without trans servicepeople.

“There are amazingly brave trans people who should be allowed to serve, like Kristin Beck, a retired Navy SEAL with a Purple Heart, Bronze Star and countless service medals,” she said.

The Navy SEAL Team 6 member, who served for 20 years in the unit whose troops killed Osama Bin Laden, challenged Trump to tell her that she was “not worthy” to her face.



Harrison added that despite figures like Beck, “Trump says transgender people in the military would be a tremendous disruption. And I get it.

“If you constantly draw attention to yourself, spend all day distracting everyone, and cost taxpayers millions of dollars, the perfect job for you isn’t the military: It’s President of the United States.”

The positions of 15,000 trans people in the military are now in immediate danger, following the President’s tweets.

The ban was announced despite the revelation that the Pentagon spends 10 times more on erectile dysfunction medication than it would on trans medical expenses.

The American Civil Liberties Union vowed to fight back against Trump’s decision by representing anyone affected by the ban.

Chat show host James Corden fought back in his own way, with a clever parody of Nat King Cole’s L-O-V-E that cut to the core of Trump’s insecurities and ignorance.

And General Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, rushed to defuse trans fears, saying there will be no action taken – for now.

Watch the full video below: 

