Transgender ‘power couple’ announces engagement and plans to start a family

Britain’s highest-ranking transgender soldier Hannah Winterbourne has announced her engagement to transgender actor and filmmaker Jake Graf.

The fiances, who have been dubbed a ‘power couple’ by the media, revealed the engagement on ITV’s Lorraine today.

They shared how Jake proposed to Hannah earlier this month while the couple were on holiday in New York, and revealed their plans to get married next summer.

Hannah came out as trans during her time in the army and began physically transitioning four years ago.

She made headlines when she became Britain’s highest-ranking transgender soldier.

And it was revealed last year that Hannah had become the first British female soldier to serve on the front line.

She met Jake a few years ago.

They said they hope to continue inspiring other trans people on their path to love, and are determined to have a family together, despite whatever complications they may face.

Jake, who started physically transitioning ten years ago, said: “It’s not going to be easy for us, but we will find a way.”

Hannah’s Lorraine debut happened back in 2015, when she spoke openly about her transition.



Jake has since followed in his fiance’s footsteps, appearing on the show this summer to discuss making films focused towards and about the transgender community.

The pair have also been hard at work campaigning for and bringing awareness to LGBT+ issues.

“We’re really proud to be out there and help other people,” Hannah said.

“It’s always seem weird to think about it, it almost sounds arrogant, but we’re just us really.”

Jake added: “Trans people look to us and say we have given them hope when finding love.”

“And my biggest concern when I was starting my transition, and I think it was Hannah’s as well, was never finding love because I think trans people are made to feel ugly and not worthy of love.”

“So if we’re inspiring a new generation of trans people to find someone for them, that is a huge honour and something that I am very proud of.”

Watch the couple discuss their engagement and future plans below:

