Transgender man stabbed to death is the 19th killed in the US this year

A transgender man has been stabbed to death in New York.

At least 19 transgender people have now been killed this year in the US.

Kashmire Redd, 28, was stabbed several times in the upper body yesterday, allegedly during an argument between him and Doris Carrasquillo (pictured below), who he shared an apartment with.

Carrasquillo, 40, has been arrested and charged with second-degree murder.

After being attacked, Redd left the apartment and collapsed on the front lawn.

Joanne Enright, the couple’s next-door neighbour, said she saw the whole scene after hearing the couple arguing.

“The noise woke me up: the swearing and it was constant,” she said.

“Things going against the wall. It was just very nerve-racking.”

After what she had experienced, Enright said she was “scared. I’m petrified here, absolutely petrified.”

She continued: “When I looked over, I saw a body on the ground with the arms up in the head right in the grass.



“And I said: ‘Oh my God, someone’s lying there.’

“There was blood all over. That’s when I went in and called 911.”

The Police Chief in Gates, New York, Jim VanBrederode, said Redd was still alive when the police were called to the scene at around 4:30am, but that he died in hospital from his injuries.

VanBrederode added that it appeared that the couple had been in a relationship for several months.

Neighbours told local news outlet Democrat & Chronicle that they have heard shouting and screaming from Redd and Carrasquillo’s apartment.

Just days before Redd died, police were reportedly called to the couple’s apartment by a neighbour.

No-one answered the door when the police attempted to gain access, VanBrederode said.

Redd’s death comes just weeks after Kiwi Herring was shot dead by local police in Missouri.

Herring was the 18th trans person to be killed this year, and the rest of the victims are largely trans women of colour.

Earlier this month, TeeTee Dangerfield was shot outside of an apartment complex in Atlanta.

The murder of Dangerfield came just days after “comedian” Lil’ Duval went on the radio show the Breakfast Club and “joked” about killing trans women.

Duval, real name Roland Powell, said that if he found out somebody was trans after having sex with them, he would kill them.

41-year-old Mesha Caldwell was shot to death in Mississippi in January and no suspects have been arrested as yet.

Jamie Lee Wounded Arrow was a 28-year-old who identified as trans and two spirit. She was found dead at her home in South Dakota in January. Joshua Rayvon LeClaire has been charged with her murder.

JoJo Striker was killed in Ohio in February. The 23-year-old was cherished by friends and family.

Tiara Richmond, also known as KeKe Collier, was shot in Chicago at the age of 24 in February.

31-year-old Chyna Doll Dupree was shot and killed in New Orleans in February. She was a celebrated performer in the community.

Ciara McElveen, 31, was stabbed to death in New Orleans two days after Dupree.

Jaquarrius Holand was 18 when she was shot to death in Monroe, Louisiana in February.

38-year-old Alphonza Watson was shot and killed in Baltimore, Maryland in March. She was described as the “sunshine” of her family.

Chay Reed, 28, was shot to death in April in Miami.

Brenda Bostick was a 59-year-old homeless trans woman who was found with severe injuries in Manhattan. It’s important to note that Bostick may not have identified as trans at the time of their death, according to the family.

Sherrell Faulkner died in May at the age of 46 after being viciously attacked in November in North Carolina. The attacker has not yet been apprehended.

27-year-old Kenne McFadden was found dead in April in the San Antonio River. It’s believed that she was pushed to her death, although police are yet to have made arrests.

Kendra Marie Adams (Josie Berrios) was found in dead in June with severe burns on her body. Michael Davis has been charged with the murder of the 28-year-old.

Ava Le’Ray Barrin was shot and killed in Georgia at just 17 in June.

Ebony Morgan, 28, was shot multiple times in Virginia at the start of July.

