Transgender porn is super popular in Russia and with over-65s

Porn Hub has released its year in review statistics, and you might be surprised to learn what porn is particularly popular with what demographic.

The 5th annual review takes the colossal amounts of data collected by the most used porn website and scrapes it to find what gets it’s 28.5 million users off.

With 50,000 searches every minute and over four million videos uploaded (that’s 68 years worth of total watching), there was certainly a lot of interesting finds by the team.

Most notably was information about transgender porn searches.

2017 was undoubtedly a rough year for the community, with Trump putting in a number of discriminatory hurdles in place, including a ban on trans military personnel. 

It was also the highest death toll on record in the US for the number of trans women killed, with 28 recorded trans people fatally shot or killed by other violent means making it the most violent year on record for trans people yet.

However, despite the discrimination against the community the “transgender” porn category has continued to grow in popularity around the world, with searches for the porn category increasing by 36 percent.

Surprisingly, Argentina is particularly into trans porn, as the term is the fifth most popular category and 86% more likely to be viewed in there than elsewhere in the world.

Interestingly, Argentina has some of the most comprehensive transgender rights laws in the world.



In 2012, the country passed it’s GenderLaw, making it one of the only countries in the world which did not require trans people to seek out hormone therapy, surgery or psychiatric diagnoses before legally changing their gender.

The World Health Organisation cited the country as “exemplary”.



In Russia, trans porn was viewed 45 percent more than anywhere else in the world.

When breaking down the statistics by age, Porn Hub found that over 65-year-olds were 36 percent more likely than to watch trans porn than any other age group.

However, lesbian, Japanese and MILF are still the top three categories across all age groups.

Weirdly enough, among 18 – 24-year-olds the newest and one of the top rated searches was for fidget spinner porn.

The break down in statistics also found that Australia watched A LOT of lesbian porn during the lead up the marriage plebiscite.

In 2017 the country’s right-wing Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull ordered a postal vote on same-sex marriage.

61.60% of people voted Yes in the survey, while 38.40% voted to deny gay people the right to marry.

There was a surge in homophobic hate crimes during the vote while leading politicians opposed to equality resorted to borderline anti-LGBT hate speech to win votes.



Lesbian was the most popular category for adult content in 2017 in the country, with a 26% surge compared to the rest of the word.

The most popular search term was also ‘lesbian’.

PornHub said: “Australia proves their love for their vast interior desert wilderness, also known as the Outback, with the Outdoor category being 24% more popular there than in other countries.

“With such beautiful surroundings, the increase of ‘snapchat’ searches by 125% from last year shouldn’t come as a surprise. ‘Threesome’ is up by one and ‘massage’ has seemingly lost its touch, making a drop of 2 spots on the top searches chart.”

