Transgender actor Alexis Arquette dies, aged 47

Transgender actor Alexis Arquette has died aged 47. 

The star’s brother Richmond Arquette wrote on Facebook to confirm her death, but her cause of death is currently unknown. 

In the post, shared by Us Weekly, Richmond referred to her using male and sometimes female pronouns.

“Our brother Robert, who became our brother Alexis, who became our sister Alexis, who became our brother Alexis, passed this morning September 11, at 12:32 am,” wrote Richmond Arquette on Facebook according to Us Weekly.

“He was surrounded by all of his brothers and sisters, one of his nieces and several other loved ones. We were playing music for him and he passed during David Bowie’s Starman. As per his wishes, we cheered at the moment that he transitioned to another dimension.”

“I am feeling immense gratitude to have been afforded the luxury of sharing life with him/her, for learning from Alexis, for being given the gift of being able to love him/her and to be loved by him/her. He was a force,” Richmond continued. 

“He died as he lived, on his own terms. I am immensely grateful that it was fast and painless. It was an incredibly moving experience and I am humbled and grateful to have been able to have been with him as he began his journey onward.” 

“Thank you, Alexis, I love you and will love you always.” 

According to Entertainment Tonight, Alexis’ gender had become more fluid in recent years, and that she had questioned whether she identified as transgender.

Richmond’s agent confirmed to PEOPLE magazine that the post about Alexis’ death was genuine.

Arquette was the sister of actors Patricia, David, Rosanna and Richmond Arquette. 

She played a gender neutral singer in the 1998 film The Wedding Singer. 

Later, in 2007, Arquette appeared in the documentary ‘Alexis Arquette: She’s my Brother’ premiered at Tribeca. 

Back in January, Arquette lashed out at Jada and Will Pinkett-Smith after they announced their plans to snub this year’s Oscars ceremony.

