Transgender teen goes viral with epic retort to transphobe

A 17-year-old trans model has gained recent notoriety for her reaction when faced with a transphobe online.

Sonnis Love, a YouTuber from LA, has attracted 43,000 subscribers with her personal and beauty-related videos.

But last week, Sonnis saw this transphobic tweet about her, which asked the public to judge her sexually.

The post was shared on several different social media platforms, and Sonnis said she felt violated by it.

But she wasn’t going to sit back and just let someone say something awful about her.

So she fired back.

Her response has so far attracted more than 211,000 retweets and likes.

“This specific post provoked me to reply because not only did it disrespect me as a woman but I also felt a little violated,” she told BuzzFeed.



“The tweet was basically fishing for transphobic comments just for pure entertainment, in my opinion.

“So I decided to stand up for myself.”

The Twitter world soon latched onto Sonnis’ reply, showing their support for her no-nonsense attitude.

Tell them sis pic.twitter.com/10fjxUXzzb
— (@denieceau) September 23, 2017


— (@denieceau) September 23, 2017




pic.twitter.com/X78Oahjz0i
— Valeria #DefendDACA (@ValzBrownie) September 23, 2017


— Valeria #DefendDACA (@ValzBrownie) September 23, 2017




“Though I still received negative comments, I also gained a lot of love and support from people around the world, which I really appreciate,” Sonnis said.

When asked about how the original tweet made her feel, Sonnis said: “I felt that it was very degrading, being that I was publicly humiliated in a sexual manner.

“I think it’s very disrespectful,” she added.

“Thousands of trans women are murdered in scenarios like this [the one displayed in the tweet], and for people to make a joke about it is very disgusting.”

But on a more positive note, she said: “I don’t mind being the target of discrimination as long as I’m inspiring others to be themselves and educating the world.

“We aren’t a burden, we don’t mean any harm, we just want acceptance and to be respected just like everyone else.

“We’re all human and we all have a purpose in this world.”

