Transgender man Jordan Cofer killed in Dayton attack

Friends of Jordan Cofer, a transgender man who was shot dead in the Dayton mass shooting, say he has been misgendered in death.

22-year-old transgender man Jordan Cofer was among nine people shot dead in the August 4 attack in Dayton, Ohio, which was perpetrated by his brother Connor Betts.

Police and media have identified Cofer by his birth name and gender, widely reporting that he was the “sister” of Betts.

But friends of Cofer say he identified as male and used he/him pronouns, with Cofer using Twitter and Instagram accounts under his chosen name up until days before his death.

Splinter notes that on Tumblr, Cofer described himself as a “trans boy with a loving heart and way too much work to do.”

One friend of Cofer wrote on Twitter: “[He] was a trans man who went by Jordan Cofer. It hurts seeing the [birth name] plastered everywhere when i know that’s not him.”

In an Instagram post, another added: “Jordan was my best friend, a love, and a perfect soul. I can’t imagine my world without him.

“I can not fathom how angry i am, and how hurt i am… Words can not describe how much i will miss you, how much i love you, and how heartbroken i am.”

Police had referred to Cofer as a “daughter” in previous statements issued on behalf of the family.

Bellbrook Police Chief Doug Doherty had said on Tuesday (August 6): “The Betts family would like to express their enormous gratitude and love for everyone that has reached out and given their support during this awful time.

“They ask that everyone respect the family’s privacy in order to mourn the loss of their son and daughter to process the horror of Sunday’s events.”

Cofer had worked as an intern for the US Forest Service in Montana.

A spokesperson for the National Center for Transgender Equality said: “We are deeply saddened to hear of the loss of Jordan as well as eight others in this tragic and violent act.

“Mass gun violence is an epidemic in this country and deserving of swift and immediate action by lawmakers at all levels of government.

“We join the nation in mourning for every community impacted by gun violence.”

There is no suggestion that his gender identity was connected to the attack.

