Transgender man gives birth to first baby

A transgender man from Texas has opened up about his experience of giving birth to his first child.

Wyley Simpson and his fiancé Stephen Gaeth were surprised to discover last year that Wyley was pregnant, as he had transitioned several years before and was taking testosterone. Due to his hormone therapy, his menstrual cycle had stopped – which led Simpson and Gaeth to believe that he couldn’t conceive.

However, last February, the couple discovered the happy news – and while it came as a jolt to Simpson and Gaeth, they decided to have the baby.

– Wyley Simpson, transgender father


While they are now happy fathers of Rowan, it hasn’t been an easy journey for the couple. Simpson told Carters News Agency that they received “a fair amount of abuse” from strangers.

He also said that people on the street called him “it” and said he would never be a man.

Simpson also said he struggled with having a baby bump – which he felt gave him a more feminine appearance.

Writing on Instagram in December, Simpson said his journey to fatherhood has taught him “so much” and has helped him to “grow as an individual and as a father as well.”

In another post, he said there was “nothing more amazing than being a father.”

In early January, he also opened up in another post about the painful backlash he and his family have experienced from the public.

“The flooding of negativity and hate against my family is sickening. It hurts. All I am trying to do is share my story and I get it if you don’t want to accept our family but to throw shade like that it’s beyond childish,” the post said.



“It’s 2019 and families are not just black or white, [they’re] not just heterosexual, gay, or straight. There are many different types of families including myself.

– Wyley Simpson, transgender father


“The comments hurt but it will never stop me from being a father.

“My child is happy and healthy and he will grow up being able to express who he is as an individual and be so much more easier than what I had.”

He also said that he would continue to share his family’s story – despite the backlash.

“I will stand here and continue to share my story about my family. I am a man who birthed my son. Your comments won’t change who I am. I will always be a father and a dad.”

A 2014 study from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists found that there was a lack of awareness, services and medical assistance available to pregnant transgender men.

Transgender men can also experience gender dysphoria or renewed issues with their body during pregnancy.

In 2008, Thomas Beatie penned an article for The Advocate which delved into his experience as a pregnant transgender man.

– Wyley Simpson, transgender father


In the article, Beatie said that his wife, Nancy, was unable to become pregnant – which led to him deciding to carry their children instead.

Writing at the time, he said their situation “sparks legal, political, and social unknowns.”

“Doctors have discriminated against us, turning us away due to their religious beliefs.”

