Trisha Paytas apologises to royal family over ‘weird’ pregnancy rumours: ‘This is awkward’

Trisha Paytas has apologised to the royal family over “weird” rumours about her pregnancy.

The controversial YouTuber sent social media into a frenzy when they revealed that they were one centimetre dilated just hours before Queen Elizabeth II passed away.

Fans immediately decided she was giving birth to the reincarnation of the late monarch – but Trisha Paytas has now rejected the idea, revealing that she is still “very much pregnant”.

In a YouTube video, Paytas showed her baby bump and said it was time to “talk about the last 24 hours”.



Writing on Instagram, they said: “Well this is awkward… to have to announce that I’m still VERY much pregnant and have NOT given birth.”

Paytas continued: “I almost felt sad yesterday to tell people this. The internet is a weird place.

“I don’t know how any of those rumours started or why?

“Sorry to the royal family and my baby.”

Trisha Paytas revealed that friends and family members – including her father – had been texting and calling her about the online theories that she was in labour.

Her father felt “out of the loop” because he thought she had gone into labour without telling him.

“Still don’t know what to say. Other than – I’m still pregnant.

“And when I do give birth, we will announce it.”

 










View this post on Instagram






















 
A post shared by Trisha Paytas Hacmon (@trishapaytasbackup)


 
A post shared by Trisha Paytas Hacmon (@trishapaytasbackup)


A post shared by Trisha Paytas Hacmon (@trishapaytasbackup)




Paytas closed out her post by offering her condolences to the royal family, saying it was “disheartening” to hear of the queen’s death.

“For people genuinely excited for us, can we keep that same energy for the next week? It was very kind and nice to hear but will be even more fun when baby is here with us.”

Social media was flooded with memes and reactions on Thursday (8 September) when Paytas announced that she was one centimetre dilated just hours before Buckingham Palace revealed that Queen Elizabeth II was receiving medical attention.

trisha paytas: there’s something wrong with my baby doctors: what is it?trisha: https://t.co/t4NJikttkM
— adriana (@basedfemcel2000) September 8, 2022

— adriana (@basedfemcel2000) September 8, 2022



The writers of the crown, a show that was supposed to only be 5 seasons, after getting a call from Netflix telling them to incorporate trisha paytas baby reincarnation subplot into season 9 pic.twitter.com/IX2GiETUPk
— jasmine (@jasiashley) September 8, 2022

— jasmine (@jasiashley) September 8, 2022



trisha paytas’ baby in 10 years pic.twitter.com/dqTmNPgirf
— matt (@mattxiv) September 8, 2022

— matt (@mattxiv) September 8, 2022



Paytas has long been a controversial figure within the LGBTQ+ community.

She once came out as a trans man but said she also “a thousand per cent” identified with the gender she was assigned at birth.

Paytas later came out as non-binary and updated their pronouns to she/they.

