US: Kentucky transgender couple share their unique path to family

A Kentucky transgender couple is sharing their unique path to creating a biological family.

Nick and Bianca Bowser are both transgender and started a family of biological children, the UK’s Daily Mirror reports.

The couple has not been able to afford gender confirmation surgeries, leaving them both biologcally able to have children.

Together since 2009, Nick gave birth to the couple’s two young children in recent years.

Nick told the Daily Mirror that he did not enjoy the experience of being pregnant with the couple’s sons, opting for C-section to deliver both children in an attempt to detach from the “very female” experience of giving birth.

Nick said: “ I decided to carry our sons because we wanted our children to be ours, but being pregnant made me absolutely miserable.

“It was a daily struggle. I hated the way my body was changing. It did not match my inner feelings.”

He told the Daily Mirror the process of being pregnant as a man was socially jarring for people, leaving him secluded for much of his third trimester.

He said: “My pregnancy was not the norm for a lot of people and so they stared.

“People are afraid of what they don’t understand.”

Right now, the couple is debating when and how to tell their sons where they came from. They said that conversation will happen in a few years when their oldest turns six-years-old.

Bianca said to the Daily Mirror: “It is important they know because it’s a big secret to keep from your children. If they found out another way, they could hold huge resentment.

“But I don’t worry about how they will react. We will not treat it as a ‘bad’ thing. And young kids are accepting and non-judgemental.”

In 2008, a transgender man from Portland, Oregon revealed he was pregnant, gaining international attention.

 In 2009, a Spanish transgender man became pregnant with twins after a course of fertility treatment.

In January 2012, a man in Israel became the first transgender man in the state’s history to give birth.

 In Decemeber, a trans man has married his partner whilst eight-months pregnant in Argentina thanks to a law allowing transgender people to marry without the legal requirement of gender reassignment surgery.

Watch the couple’s unique path to family here.

