Walking Dead star Khary Payton proudly introduces his transgender son Karter to the world

The Walking Dead star Khary Payton has revealed his son is trans in a tear-jerking Instagram post and, yes, we’re already crying here.

Payton, who portrays King Ezekiel in the AMC show, took to social media Monday evening (June 15) to share an adorable snap of his son, Karter.

He discussed how Karter chose his own name, in part a tribute to his father, and how he’s ready and rearing to take on any transphobic trolls that come his way. Yes, we’re crying again.

In a lengthy Instagram post, the 48-year-old shared a photograph of Karter wearing safety gear. He wrote: “This my kid. One of the most happy, well-adjusted individuals I’ve ever known.

“My son, Karter. Karter with a K because it reminded him of my name. He chose it. You see, he was born female but has always identified as a boy.



 This my kid. One of the most happy, well-adjusted individuals I’ve ever known. My son, Karter. Karter with a K because it reminded him of my name. He chose it. You see, he was born female but has always identified as a boy. He thought it would be cool if I announced it on social media. I told him that there would be so many supporters but also a lot of jerks who would be harsh. He said, “Yeah, I know about trolls, daddy. I can handle trolls.” ? Man, there is nothing more beautiful than watching your child feel the joy of exploring what it means to be true to themselves. This is his journey, and I am here for it. I hope you all have the opportunity to feel the unquenchable love that I am feeling right now.
A post shared by  Khary Payton (@kharypayton) on Jun 15, 2020 at 10:25am PDT


A post shared by  Khary Payton (@kharypayton) on Jun 15, 2020 at 10:25am PDT




“He thought it would be cool if I announced it on social media. I told him that there would be so many supporters but also a lot of jerks who would be harsh.

“He said: ‘Yeah, I know about trolls, daddy. I can handle trolls.’

“Man, there is nothing more beautiful than watching your child feel the joy of exploring what it means to be true to themselves. This is his journey, and I am here for it.

“I hope you all have the opportunity to feel the unquenchable love that I am feeling right now.”

Payton posted the news on the same day the Supreme Court handed the LGBT+ rights movement a stunning victory — announcing a landmark civil rights ruling that will protect gay and trans workers from workplace discrimination.

It was a long and trying journey for activists. The sought-after protections, once thought of by some as easier to gain than marriage equality, being granted by fundamentally conservative justices came as an unexpected triumph for a community continually denigrated by the Trump administration.

After the six-to-three ruling, LGBT+ leaders and allies from Pete Buttigieg to Hillary Clinton welcomed the long-overdue victory with elation.

