Wearing jeans makes you give birth to transgender kids, says professor

Women who wear jeans and other stereotypically male clothes will give birth to trans children, a professor has said.

Dr Rajith Kumar, a lecturer at Sree Sankara College in Kerala, in southern India, also said that children born to parents who break gender stereotypes will have autism.

In a speech reportedly given in Kasaragod, Dr Kumar said he had a “scientific explanation for why transgender and autistic children are born.”

He presented the crowd with the concept of “a woman who dresses up like a man. What will be the character of the child this woman gives birth to?

“The name of these children is ‘transgender’”.

“Already, more than six trans people have been born in Kerala,” he continued, according to the Deccan Chronicle.

Dr Kumar then proceeded to make a distinction between “good” children and trans children.

“Good children are born to those men and women who live their lives as men and women,” he said.

“But, when a woman degrades her womanhood and a man degrades his manhood, the girl child born to the couple will have the character of a man.

“The child that she eventually gives birth to will be born transgender,” he added.

The professor, whose university bio indicates that he has a Master’s and PhD, continued: “The children born to rebel men and women have this new disease called autism.”



Pointing to a video of a couple whose children are autistic, he asked the audience: “Do you see that?

“The mother is wearing jeans and both her children suffer from autism.”

Kerala’s minister of health and social welfare, K. K. Shailaja, responded with a statement which indicated that Dr Rajith has been banned from taking part in government programmes.

She continued: “Rajith Kumar has been consistently propagating superstitious and sexist ideas.

“After having made a comment that transgender people are born to women who wear jeans, he reiterated the statement in a television show.

“We are mulling legal action against him for making such derogatory comments,” the minister added.

In a video posted on his Facebook page, Dr Kumar defended the speech, saying that “in the past few days, there have been efforts to put me down and show me in a bad light.

“When I was called to attend a television show, they edited out the portions where I backed my statements with scientific proof.

“I just want to save children from leading life in wrong ways,” he added.

“Only a certain statement from my 4-hour long speech was taken and is now being used to create misunderstanding among people.”

Last month, West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said there were no lesbians in his schools, because that would be “against the ethos” of his state.

This was despite the region having a population of more than 90 million.

He made the statement after 10 students in Kolkata were allegedly forced to sign a letter ‘confessing’ that they were lesbians.

