Welsh Government launches consultation for transgender equality

The Welsh Government has today launched a consultation into how it can do more to ensure equality for transgender people.

The consultation runs from today until 11 September, and hopes to “address areas of discrimination, improve access to public services and tackle social stigmatisation, harassment and bullying for transgender people in Wales.”

It follows a debate in November 2014 on trans issues in the Welsh assembly.

Focussing on misconceptions and a lack of understanding of trans issues by the wider population, the consultation aims to tackle issues faced by trans Welsh people.

The consultation document reads: “The purpose of this consultation is to seek views on the Welsh Government’s Transgender Action Plan. We want to identify and address areas of discrimination, improve access to public services and tackle social stigmatisation, harassment and bullying for transgender people in Wales.

“We particularly want to engage with transgender people, organisations representing those who are transgender as well as individuals who have an interest in furthering the equality of transgender people.

“We want to understand what actions the Welsh Government can take to remove the barriers transgender people face.”

Peter Black AM, the Welsh Liberal Democrat Shadow Equalities Minister, reacted today, saying: “I’m delighted that the Welsh Lib Dems’ landmark debate has resulted in positive action to improve the lives of trans people in Wales. However, there is much to be wanted from what’s been launched today.

“During our debate, Welsh Lib Dem AMs raised specific concerns about the lack of a gender identity clinic and LGBT safe housing in Wales. Despite listening to these problems and promising to address them, there’s no specific mention of either issue in this document. We will be making our views on this clear as we respond to the consultation.

“Labour Ministers seem more focused on ensuring inclusivity in the public services already provided, rather than addressing the gaps in trans-specific services where Wales falls short. While inclusivity is of course vital, I had hoped we’d see something a bit more ambitious from the Welsh Government.”

Member of the Welsh Assembly and Welsh equality minister Lesley Griffiths wrote in a foreword that she hoped individuals and organisations would engage with the consultation to make Wales a fairer place for all.

Those wishing to submit ideas should write to Fairer Futures, Welsh Government, Cardiff. CF10 3NQ, or email [email protected]

