What percentage of the US population is transgender?

There have been various studies and surveys throughout the years regarding transgender statistics in the United States. However, we are yet to get an accurate reading of the transgender population.

Many LGBT+ activists believe that surveys are unreliable and there actually many more trans people than recorded due to the fear of discrimination and transphobia.

But studies and surveys serve a purpose as we can cross-examine them and get a rough idea of the number of trans people in the US.

According to the Williams Institute, in 2016, approximately 0.6 percent of adults in the United States identified as transgender. This translates to just over 1.3 million adults.

This number shows a huge increase from the institute’s study five years before. In fact, the percentage had doubled.

Researchers had a theory on why this may be. They said the “increase in visibility and social acceptance of transgender people may increase the number of individuals willing to identify as transgender on a government-administered survey.”

Meanwhile, in 2017, LGBT statistics by GLAAD reported that an estimated 3 percent of the US population identified as transgender across various age groups.

The university study also broke down its stats per state.

States with the highest transgender population:

States with the lowest transgender population:

Overall, it was found that more young people are transgender. This is likely due to LGBT+ education becoming more available and known, thus giving youth a chance to understand themselves better and to come out as trans.



Indeed, these statistics are just estimates and do not reflect the true percentage of those who are transgender. While stigma remains, it may be a while before a census shows us reliable data about the trans community.

Thankfully, existing studies and activists who spread awareness do give us an idea of the percentage, and society is taking steps in the right direction.

Six transgender men—Steffan, Cairo, Toby, Harry, Roshaante and Kenny—share their experiences of transphobia and discrimination (the same kind of discrimination has likely stopped many trans people from coming out).

From online trolling to invasive questions about toilets and surgery, they share their experiences and how they cope with transphobia.

Watch the video below:



