7th Circuit Finds a ‘Living’ Civil Rights Act: ‘Sex’ Now Means Sexual Orientation

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit issued an 8-3 en banc ruling Tuesday holding that the term “sex” in Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act now includes sexual orientation.

The case, Hively v. Ivy Tech Community College, involved Kimberly Hively, a part-time instructor who alleged that she had not been hired full-time on the basis of her being a lesbian and sued on the theory this constituted discrimination on the basis of sex under Title VII. Her case was initially dismissed,  first by the district court and then by a three-judge panel of the Seventh Circuit, for failure to state a claim on which relief can be granted, citing in each case decades of Seventh Circuit precedent restricting sex discrimination claims based on distinctions between men and women.

At the appellate level, Ms. Hively’s case was taken on by Lambda Legal, a well-funded pro-gay public interest law firm with long-standing financial ties to left-wing billionaire George Soros’s Open Society Foundations. After losing in their initial appeal, Hively and Lambda Legal were able to secure the eleven judge en banc panel which Tuesday overturned precedent on which the initial appellate panel ruled.

A Living Civil Rights Act

The majority opinion, authored by Chief Judge Diane Woods, acknowledged the precedent on which the smaller panel had relied, but insisted developments at the Supreme Court over the last two decades warranted a “fresh look.” Citing Supreme Court decisions from 1989 and 1998 that requiring “stereotypical” male or female constitutes sex discrimination under Title VII as well as  Obergefell v. Hodges, the 2015 landmark holding that the constitution mandates homosexual marriage, Woods came to see what she calls the “common-sense reality that it is actually impossible to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation without discriminating on the basis of sex.

Neither that the 1960s authors of Title VII had no intention of including sexual orientation when they prohibited discrimination on the basis of sex, nor the fact that, in the intervening decades, legislatures have passed dozens of law that include protections against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, held little sway with the majority.

“It is therefore neither here nor there that the Congress that enacted the Civil Rights Act in 1964 and chose to include sex as a prohibited basis for employment discrimination (no matter why it did so) may not have realized or understood the full scope of the words it chose,”

the ruling read.


“Is it even remotely plausible that in 1964, when Title VII was adopted, a reasonable person competent in the English language would have understood that a law banning employment discrimination ‘because of sex’ also banned discrimination because of sexual orientation? The answer is no, of course not.”

No “Gender Identity” This Time

Interestingly, Chief Judge Woods’s majority opinion refused to draw the distinction between “sex” and “gender,” a term which does not appear in the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Drawing a distinction between the two and severing the link between biological sex and so-called “gender identity” has been a goal of the progressive left both in and out of the courtroom for years.

Other circuit courts, including the California-based “Notorious Ninth” have ruled in the past that employers discriminating on the basis of so-called gender identity is also “sex discrimination” under Title VII. In 2012, the EEOC, after the Obama Administration’s recess appointments gave Democratic appointees a majority on that body, also adopted this interpretation. The EEOC has since declined to go as far as the Seventh Circuit did Tuesday and include sexual orientation in the federal prohibition on sex discrimination.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

