ACLU Fought Chemical Castration of Sex Offenders, Supports Use of Same Drugs on Trans Kids

The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), which previously opposed the administration of a drug to chemically castrate sex offenders, is now advocating for children to be able to take the chemically castrating drugs as puberty blockers.

Former Executive Director of the ACLU of Alabama Randall Marshall called the practice of chemical castration “medical experimentation,” also claiming that it “has no basis in the medical community.”

Dillon Nettles, a policy analyst with the ACLU of Alabama, said the law “presents serious issues, involving involuntary medical treatment, informed consent, privacy and cruel and unusual punishment.”

A majority of Americans overwhelmingly oppose transgender surgery for kids and puberty blockers for minors, a poll shows. https://t.co/hpZIKAH0xd

— Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) May 13, 2022

The drug that was to be used for chemical castration is called medroxyprogesterone acetate, and it is also used as a puberty blocker. One study notes that the drug “is a widely used progestin in feminizing hormone therapy.”

But while the ACLU has vocally opposed the use of medroxyprogesterone acetate on convicted sex offenders, the organization has called “gender affirming care” for children, which includes the use of puberty blockers, “medically necessary” and even “life saving.”

Chase Strangio, the deputy director of the ACLU LGBTQ and HIV Project, spoke out in favor of what is euphemistically called “gender affirming care” on behalf of the organization.

The ACLU will go to court in Alabama to protect sex offenders from the harms of an inhumane experimental drug.The ACLU will go to court in Texas to demand that innocent people are exposed to the same unethical & irreversible drug🚩'Healthcare apparently'https://t.co/qlyspOFuzv

— Biology Rules Ok (@OkBiology) August 22, 2022

One common medical intervention that is performed on children struggling with gender dysphoria is the administration of drugs that are used off-label as puberty blockers.

Medroxyprogesterone acetate isn’t the only drug that has been used both for chemical castration and puberty blocking however. 

Leuprolide acetate, referred to as Lupron, is commonly used off-label as a puberty blocker. It has also been used to chemically castrate sex offenders.

Doomed UK Trans Kids Clinic Left 'Thousands of Damaged Children' In Its Wake https://t.co/xkxgQfFrj9

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 30, 2022

Several other members of the Pritzker family have advanced the transgender movement and the Pritzker Foundation has given $15 million to Chicago’s Lurie Children’s Hospital, which assists in sex change attempts.

The $101,000 donation to the ACLU from Pritzker specifically went towards fighting what was referred to as “anti-transgender” laws in Tennessee. The ACLU has also received $15 million from Jon Stryker, the heir to a medical technology empire, who gave the money to fund the ACLU’s attempt to counter state bills that oppose transgender ideology.

Spencer Lindquist is a reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @SpencerLndqst and reach out at slindquist@breitbart.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

