Adorable new fairy tale gives Cinderella a transgender twist (VIDEO)

A new animated Cinderella story aims to teach teaching children about diversity.

‘Jamie – A Transgender Fairytale’ is the latest video from Olly Pike, a UK-based performer and activist.

His YouTube channel, Pop’n’Olly, aims to teach children issues effecting the LGBT community and encourage tolerance and understanding.



He aims to do this with the help of original animated videos – and a talking balloon named Pop.

The channel’s latest story tells the touching tale of young Jamie. Like Cinderella, the character is bullied by her older siblings.

In another twist to the tale, her evil brothers have a fairy godmother to grant their every wish, but Jamie does not.

Her only wish, however, is to feel comfortable in her own skin.

“She wished that she could feel right, because she didn’t,” the video explains. “She didn’t feel right at all. Not in her body, that is.”

“You see, how Jamie felt inside didn’t match up with what she saw in the mirror, and oh how she wished it could.”

Jamie finally gets his wish, as he is finally able to be true to himself and those around him.

As Jamie exclaims “I’m a boy! I always have been!”, his friends explain that they completely understand and give him a huge hug.

YouTube star Lewis Hancox – who stars in the video – told PinkNews that he hopes teach “kids about gender identity, that it isn’t perverse and shouldn’t be a taboo.”

“Gender is something that is placed upon us from birth, and we can feel if our gender is wrong from an early age.

“When I was a kid I didn’t know what being transgender was, all I knew was how I felt,” he explained.

“Having a character like Jamie, who is cool and positive, someone kids can look up to, can make the world of difference!

“I hope that it will give children the confidence to know that if they do feel trans, they shouldn’t be ashamed.”



Lewis himself has previously made a video sharing the ten kinds of reactions he got when he came out, and another answering questions about ‘trans guy sex’.

Watch the video below.



