Andy Ngo: Twitter Punishes You for Telling the Truth

Journalist and Antifa target Andy Ngo has returned to Twitter after his account was temporarily suspended for tweeting empirically verifiable facts about allegedly widespread violence against transgender people in the U.S.

Twitter suspended Ngo’s account for “hateful conduct” after he responded to a tweet from Chelsea Clinton which alleged an “epidemic” of violence against trangender people in America. Clinton said that Americans must “commit to doing all we can to end this epidemic of violence and hate.”

In an op-ed for the Post Millennial, Ngo revealed that his appeal for Twitter to lift his suspension had been rejected, and that he had been forced to delete the tweet before his account could be restored.

Via The Post Millennial:

Twitter’s decision to force me to accept a false reality in order to use its platform is chilling to those who value truth above dogma, as uncomfortable as the truth may be. The dogma of our day is the trans ideology—an authoritarian worldview replete with science and evidence denial. Among many things, it claims that sex is a construct and that trans people are being hunted down across America

Though every homicide is a tragedy and victims are due justice, lying about the scale is politically exploitative and reckless. It prevents the public from accessing real problems honestly in order to advocate for real solutions. Worst of all, it harms the very people who need protection.

This is not the first time Twitter has banned someone for posting facts. Last year, Twitter banned anti-sharia activist Tommy Robinson after he tweeted a statistical fact about Muslim grooming gangs.

Are you an insider at Google, Reddit, Facebook, Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company? Reach out to Allum Bokhari at his secure email address allumbokhari@protonmail.com. 

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

