Another Occupier Exposes Herself (Himself) to Minors



Zot L. Szurgot allegedly walked out of her house naked, turned to five of her neighbors and started wagging her penis. 

Szurgot, a 52-year-old transgender man who identifies as both a man and a woman, was arrested Wednesday by the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office for indecent exposure and lewd behavior.

[…]

Of the five people who saw Szurgot’s sexual equipment, one was a 10-year-old boy. Another was his 4-year-old sister.Szurgot stood about 100 feet from her neighbors, an arrest report states, completely nude. 

The boy told officers “the man was naked and shook his wee-wee at me.”The children’s mother said she wanted to press charges, as did another adult who said he saw more of Szurgot than he preferred, according to police.On her Facebook page, Szurgot cites Occupy Gainesville as her employer.She has been quoted in multiple Alligator articles about the movement.

Like the multiple rapes, exposing oneself is also fast becoming a trend amongst the now-fizzled Occupy movement. 

From Seattle:

 A man accused of exposing himself to children at least five times across Seattle was arrested early Tuesday morning.Seattle police say he was taken into custody at his Kenmore residence around 1 a.m.Officers had been given a composite sketch of the suspect and detectives learned he had been at Westlake Park taking part in the Occupy Seattle protests.

Los Angeles:

Five people at the Occupy L.A. encampment have been charged withseparate crimes, including a man who allegedly exposed himself andcommited [sic] a sex act in front of a child, officials said Tuesday.

Szurgot was by all accounts an active participant in Occupy Gainesville.

Oregon:

A Eugene woman is speaking out after she and her family accidentally stumbled upon a topless protest outside City Councilor George Poling’s house.The woman says she was taking her six and eight year old boys out to look at Christmas lights when she saw a group of topless women, with bags over their heads and red paint on their bodies.

So in addition to the Occupy rapes and other Occupy crimes, we now have adults “protesting” by masturbating in front of children, shaking their penises at them, and running topless through their neighborhoods with bags over their heads. I can’t wait to compare the results of the 2012 election post-Occupy with the results of the 2012 election post-tea party. 

“God bless them,” said Rep. Nancy Pelosi. 

“We’re on their side,” said President Obama. 

Are they still? 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

