Anti-1A ‘Equality Act’ Likely to Pass with House GOP Support

House Democrats are poised to pass the Equality Act again, claiming it will merely amend federal civil rights law to ensure sexual orientation and gender identity are included among protected classes — without protection for religious objections.

In 2019, the House passed the Equality Act, 236-173, with eight Republicans voting with Democrats, three of whom did not run for re-election in November, but whose seats are now occupied by new Republican House members.

The other Republicans who voted in favor of the Equality Act and are still members of Congress who will be voting on the legislation again are: Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL); Brian Fitzpatrick (PA); John Katko (NY); Tom Reed (NY); and Elise Stefanik (NY).

The Equality Act is legislative malpractice that turns equality on its head. It isn’t drafted as a shield to protect vulnerable minorities from unjust discrimination, but as a sword to persecute those who do not embrace new sexual and gender ideologies. https://t.co/YSWJpB6R7m

— Ryan T. Anderson (@RyanTAnd) February 19, 2021

Take the next step: Write your US Senators and ask them to vote NO on the Equality Act!https://t.co/v1X8s9oYds

— WoLF (@WomensLibFront) February 21, 2021

This time the Equality Act could pass in the Senate as well, and, if so, President Joe Biden is expected to sign it into law. The legislation would end the federal recognition of male-female sex, in favor of gender identity, by rewriting civil rights law to include “sexual orientation and gender identity” as protected classes. If the bill becomes law, it would likely upend the national culture as Americans have known it, affecting women’s and girls’ sports and privacy in public facilities, and faith-based institutions.

On Monday, Catholic League president Bill Donohue denounced the equality act as “the most comprehensive assault on Christianity ever written into law.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

