Anti-trans InfoWars host Alex Jones explains why transgender porn was on his phone

Alex Jones has denied watching transgender porn on his phone.

The InfoWars host was mocked and accused of hypocrisy this week after accidentally revealing his open tabs during a live demonstration of how to use the outlet’s website.

Among the open pages on his iPhone was one that appeared to show a pornographic video titled “Naughty Tbabe Mistress,” which features Australian transgender adult model Marissa Minx.

But according to Jones, porn appears on people’s phones all the time without them wanting it to.

While taking calls on his show today (August 29), a viewer asked the alt-right host about his risqué browsing habits.

Jones responded: “It’s ridiculous,” before explaining that adult scenes interrupted his investigation of a potential hire.

“I was like, looking up some reporter we’re trying to hire today and punched in some number and it popped up porn on my phone,” he said.

“Everyone’s had porn pop up on their phones hundreds of times.”

Jones, who last month called drag queens “satanic” beings who should be “consumed by fire,” then gave his account of the original incident.

“So I’m sitting there with a phone, on air, showing it to everybody because I couldn’t get a URL up in the studio, and then like, some thing pops up, like oh my god, and I looked at it,” he said.

“The news blurred it out because there was nothing there. They blurred it to then say something was there, and when you went to it, it was some porn menu.



“I’ve probably had porn menus pop up 500 times on my phone,” he added. “So I appreciate your call; I mean, it’s insane, ladies and gentlemen.”

The fringe conspiracy theorist continued: “There’s two types of people: people that look at porn and people that lie about it,” before adding: “I wasn’t looking at porn on my phone.

“I don’t take phones on air that I look at porn on.”

Jones has been banned from a string of social media outlets over his “hate-filled rants” towards LGBT+ people, Muslims and immigrants.

In one particularly horrific tirade, he called a transgender man who has publicly opened up about giving birth “mentally ill.”

He has also claimed transgender people are building cyborgs to destroy civilisation, saying: “The most protected class are going to be augmented humans—cyborgs, you name it.

“And you’re going to have humanoids, which again isn’t a man and a woman with the chromosomes splicing together.

“It’s not a human. It’s something different when you’ve got three parents. And you say, ‘Oh, we just changed some genes over here.’ It changes the whole deal, especially if you start mixing two women,” Jones continued.

“They’re creating new lifeforms and they’re just creating a stampede where you don’t criticise that.

“It’ll be like the national religion to go ‘L3Q943ABCQPBLV543Z92 dot dot dot 34Q5974. I mean, it’s just total mental illness, but it’s how you destroy a civilisation.”

