Babylon Bee Defiant 24 Hours After Twitter Lockdown for Calling Rachel Levine a ‘Man’

Christian satire site the Babylon Bee has remained defiant 24 hours after Twitter locked its account for calling the transgender HHS assistant secretary Dr. Rachel Levine a “man.”

“The Babylon Bee’s Man of the Year is Rachel Levine,” said the headline.

Twitter then locked the satire site’s account for 12 hours on the condition that they delete the tweet, alleging it violates the platform’s “hateful conduct” policy. Babylon Bee CEO Seth Dillon said they will not cave to Twitter’s demands.

We're not deleting anything. Truth is not hate speech. If the cost of telling the truth is the loss of our Twitter account, then so be it.

— Seth Dillon (@SethDillon) March 20, 2022

Over 24 hours later, the Babylon Bee’s account still remains on lockdown while Babylon Bee has refused to delete the tweet. When asked, Twitter reportedly said, “The account you referenced has been temporarily locked for violating our hateful conduct policy. The account owner is required to delete the violative Tweet before regaining access to their account.”

Seth Dillon noted that Twitter could delete the tweet themselves if they find it so offensive.

“They could, of course, delete the tweet themselves. But they won’t. It’s not enough for them to just wipe it out. They want us to bend the knee and admit that we engaged in hateful conduct,” Dillon said on Monday.

They could, of course, delete the tweet themselves. But they won't. It's not enough for them to just wipe it out. They want us to bend the knee and admit that we engaged in hateful conduct.

— Seth Dillon (@SethDillon) March 21, 2022

Dillon later added that the Babylon Bee’s use of the word “man” instead of “male” offended the Twitter commissars.

“It’s the word ‘man’ that’s problematic, not ‘male,'” he said. “They allow transgenders like Rachel Levine to be described as physically male. But they won’t allow you to conclude that a person’s maleness makes them a man. If Rachel self-identifies as a woman, then you must affirm that.”

This is consistent with their false distinction between sex and gender.

— Seth Dillon (@SethDillon) March 21, 2022

I'm getting tagged by dozens of people saying they're reporting my personal account. Notices like this are starting to stream in.

The Left isn't interested in freedom or debate. They demand ideological conformity. Submit or they'll silence you. pic.twitter.com/BFFkhnT2Hz

— Seth Dillon (@SethDillon) March 21, 2022

.@SethDillon tells Tucker Carlson about The Babylon Bee's Twitter suspension, and their refusal to delete the joke.

Read more: https://t.co/OA0FkPI06i pic.twitter.com/XeSv1xyazB

— The Post Millennial (@TPostMillennial) March 22, 2022

Babylon Bee editor-in-chief Kyle Mann later took to the New York Post where he exclaimed that the company will not bow down to Twitter’s censorship.

“It’s control over our minds that Twitter wants,” wrote Mann. “They can’t just delete the offending tweet and let us back in. They want us to go into our account and click the delete button ourselves. We have to bend the knee, kiss the ring, bow to the towering statue of LGBTQ politics when the trumpets play, or we stay on timeout indefinitely.”

“We have to promise to do better, implicitly agree that calling a man a man is hate speech, and then we’ll be allowed the right to speak on Twitter’s platform,” he added. “Well, we’re not going to do that. We’re fighting back. We’ll do whatever we have to do to retain our integrity here.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

