Bandcamp Virtue Signals: We Stand with Trans Community, Refugees Against ‘Discriminatory’ White House

The popular music streaming service and marketplace “Bandcamp” released a statement condemning the Trump Administration’s transgender military ban on Monday.

In a blog post, Bandcamp also announced they would be donating 100 percent of their share from music purchases on Friday to the Transgender Law Center.

“That this announcement was motivated in part to help fund the border wall exposes it as part of the administration’s cynical, discriminatory agenda,” Bandcamp continued. “In response, we will be donating 100% of our share of every sale on Friday, August 4th (from midnight to midnight Pacific Time) to the Transgender Law Center, a nonprofit organization that works tirelessly to change law, policy, and culture for the more equitable. TLC does critical policy advocacy and litigation on multiple fronts, fights for healthcare for trans veterans, defends incarcerated trans people from abuse in prisons and detention centers, supports trans immigrants, and helps trans youth tell their stories and build communities.”

Bandcamp continued to mention a similar protest they held earlier this year, following President Trump’s temporary ban on immigration from certain countries.

When an Executive Order was issued earlier this year barring immigrants and refugees from seven Middle Eastern countries from entering the United States, we held a wildly successful fundraiser for the ACLU. We hope you’ll join us in now doing the same in support of trans rights. To participate as a fan, simply purchase music through Bandcamp on Friday and we’ll donate our share of the sale to TLC. To participate as an artist or label, send some or all of your share of Friday’s sales directly to TLC here, and let us know your plan in the comments below so that we can help spread the word. Thank you!

The company ended the blog post by promoting a list of “trans and gender non-conforming artists” on their service.

Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

