Batgirl Comic Character Comes Out as Transgender



After DC rebooted its franchise in 2011 in an attempt to reconcile its decades of loose character arcs and confusing back histories, Batgirl’s alter ego (Barbara Gordon) moved out of her father’s home (Batman’s Commissioner James Gordon) and moved in with a roommate named Alysia Yeoh.

So, Batgirl number 19 marks the debut as the very first “real-world” transgendered character in all of mainstream comics. By “Real-world” that means a character that is merely transgendered in the “real-world” sense, not changed via some sort of superhero-styled transformation.

In interviews, Batgirl writer and the transgender character’s creator, Gail Simone, has admitted that the Yeoh character was written as a transgender character from the very beginning and said that DC Comics executives have been supportive of the move all along.

Simone said her inspiration came from a conversation she had with fellow comics writer Greg Rucka. It was Rucka who re-wrote the Batwoman character to be portrayed as a lesbian back in 2006.

Simone also said that when she attended comics conventions and saw what she felt were transgendered comics fans in attendance she wanted to give them a character for whom they could root.

Simone also points out that the comics industry is awash with “diversity” and not by accident. Insinuating sex-based characters into comic books isn’t just an idea, it’s “the issue for superhero comics.”

“Look, we have a problem most media don’t have, which is that almost all the tentpoles we build our industry upon were created over a half century ago … at a time where the characters were almost without exception white, cis-gendered*, straight, on and on. It’s fine–it’s great that people love those characters. But if we only build around them, then we look like an episode of The Andy Griffith Show for all eternity.”

Simone isn’t alone in and entertainment industry filled with people that feel that traditional characters are “a problem” that must be overcome. Batgirl number 19 is just one more step down the road to correct that “problem.” 

*”Cis-gendered” means a person who identifies sexually with the same sex he was born with (i.e a person born male identifies as a heterosexual male, etc.). This word is another one of those terms invented in universities aimed at eliminating the word “normal” when discussing sexual preferences.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

