Biden Town Hall Questioners Included Obama Administration Speechwriter

Two of the questioners at Joe Biden’s (D) Thursday town hall have ties to prominent Democrats, including a man who served as a speechwriter in former President Barack Obama’s administration.

However, organizers did not appear to be entirely forthcoming on the identities of at least two of the town hall attendees, who have connections to high-profile Democrats:

Hey @abc, how on earth could this happen?!

Biden's ABC town hall questioners include former Obama speechwriter, wife of former Pennsylvania Dem candidatehttps://t.co/2ou2A2IRtk

— Richard Grenell (@RichardGrenell) October 16, 2020

“And what do you say to LGBTQ Americans and others who are very worried right now about erosions of their rights and our democracy as a whole?” he asked.

Once again, the former vice president did not offer a definitive answer on if he would pack the court as president:

More per Fox News:

Osburn was quoted in the Philadelphia Inquirer earlier this year as “a former Obama administration speechwriter” who had created a “Philly for Pete group” aimed at boosting former Democratic presidential primary candidate Pete Buttigieg. And the LGBTQ Victory Institute listed Osburn as a senior speechwriter for the Small Business Administration in an article praising the Obama-Biden administration for its LGBTQ hiring practices.

Notably, ABC’s chyron listed Osburn’s occupation as “communications.”

Haeck ultimately asked Biden how he would “reverse” the Trump administration’s “dangerous and discriminatory agenda and ensure that the lives and rights of LGBTQ people are protected under U.S. law.”

“I will flat out just change the law,” Biden said:

“Our children and I are so proud of our @MiekeHaeck for her courage in asking this question of @JoeBiden and so grateful to our next President for his caring and decisive answer in support of transgender and all LGBTQ people,” Nanes wrote following his wife’s question:

Our children and I are so proud of our @MiekeHaeck for her courage in asking this question of @JoeBiden and so grateful to our next President for his caring and decisive answer in support of transgender and all LGBTQ people. https://t.co/zvDlO9c2Tl

— Ezra Nanes (@EzraNanes) October 16, 2020

During the town hall, Biden admitted that his 1994 crime bill was a “mistake” and told a voter that he “does not propose banning fracking,” despite indicating otherwise in the past.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

