Bishop Aubrey Shines: Trump Trans Military Policy Rightly Reversed Obama’s ‘Monstrosity’ of a Policy

Evangelical Bishop Aubrey Shines says President Donald Trump’s policy barring transgender people from the U.S. armed forces was a necessary reversal of Obama’s “enforced monstrosity,” was not bigoted or controversial, and was the correct decision in terms of cost effectiveness and combat readiness.

Speaking in an exclusive Breitbart News video from his Tampa Florida-based Glory to Glory Church, Bishop Shines said: “Issue number one is the cost.”

The second glaring issue with transgender military members, Bishop Shines says, is “the effectiveness of our troops.”

“Transgenders would miss almost an entire year of duty, making them irrelevant for military readiness,” says Bishop Shines, whose father served in the Korean War and whose son currently serves the U.S armed forces. “Is this discriminatory? Well, absolutely it is. Out military intentionally, and justifiably by the way, does so. Obesity, various diseases, even one being flatfooted are grounds for disqualification.”Bishop Shines blasts the “borderline insane” assertion that transgender Americans being barred from military service is comparable to black Americans who suffered civil rights violations.

Bishop Shines blasts the “borderline insane” assertion that transgender Americans being barred from military service is comparable to black Americans who suffered civil rights violations.

“Black were sold into slavery. Transgenders have never been sold into slavery. Black genitals were non-surgically removed. Transgenders chose to surgically remove theirs,” Bishop Shines says. “Blacks were denied education. Transgenders have never been denied education. Black were denied water from public fountains. Transgenders have never been denied such. Blacks were denied the right to vote. Transgender people have never been denied their voting rights.”

Bishops Shines says he pastors a very large dynamic of men and women who are military veterans and says “whites and blacks that crushed the barbaric practice of slavery are appalled that transgenders would compare their objectives to black civil rights. That is insanity.”

Follow Bishop Aubrey Shines on Facebook here

Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

