Black trans woman Kee Sam becomes the 28th known transgender person murdered in the US this year so far

Kee Sam, a Black trans woman, has been brutally murdered in Louisiana, making her the 28th known trans person to be killed in the US this year.

Kee Sam was just 24-years-old when she was found unresponsive and suffering from a gunshot wound in a hotel room in Lafayette, Louisiana, on 12 August.

According to the Human Rights Campaign (HRC), she was rushed to hospital, but succumbed to her injuries the next day.

The investigation into her death is ongoing, but a 16-year-old has reportedly been arrested in connection with the shooting.

Early media reports of her death deadnamed and misgendered Sam, and the majority of these have not been corrected.

Tori Cooper, director of community engagement for the transgender justice initiative at Human Rights Campaign (HRC) said in a statement: “Another Black transgender woman has been killed in this country.

“We know that Black trans women are disproportionately affected by this violence, and yet far too many still remain silent about the violence we face.

“HRC has already seen as many violent deaths of transgender and gender non-conforming people this year as we tracked all of last year.

“We must all speak up in support of trans and gender non-conforming people and affirm that Black Trans Lives Matter.

“As we mourn Kee, we will continue to advocate for reforms that will protect trans lives.

“We must all support and protect our trans friends and family. We must also ensure that hate crime laws and judicial systems hold those who hurt us accountable.”

Kee Sam’s death marks the third murder of a Black trans woman in Louisiana within the last three months.

Shaki Peters, a 32-year old Black trans woman, was killed in Amite City, Louisiana, on 1 July, 2020, and her death is currently being investigated as a homicide.

Queasha D Hardy, 24, was killed less than a month later, on 27 July. She was found lying in the street in the middle of the day, having suffered multiple gunshot wounds.

Both women were misgendered and deadnamed in the media reports following their deaths.

