Caitlyn Jenner issues empty apology after misgendering trans TikTok star Dylan Mulvaney

Caitlyn Jenner has apologised for misgendering trans TikTok star Dylan Mulvaney – but stands by other statements she made.

A member of Jenner’s team issued an apology to the Washington Examiner, blaming someone else for the offensive tweet.

“An individual on Ms. Jenner’s team haphazardly misgendered Dylan in the tweet, stating: ‘[She] is talking about [her] penis.’

“For this we deeply regret the comment and have taken the appropriate actions to rectify the situation internally.”

However, the representative added that “Ms. Jenner has no further comment on the matter and stands by her statements, otherwise.”

The Olympian and former partner of Kris Jenner initially commented on a video of Mulvaney meeting US president Joe Biden, praising senator Marsha Blackburn who had responded to day 74 of Mulvaney’s vlog with: “Radical left-wing lunatics want to make this absurdity normal”.

Jenner replied to Blackburn’s tweet thanking her and claimed Mulvaney’s post was “absurdity”.

When a commenter pleaded with Jenner to “delete this hateful tweet”, she responded by misgendering Mulvaney saying: “[She] is talking about [her] penis!”

After being pulled up about the mistake, Jenner said she had never “received more death threats” than from the “so-called ‘inclusive’ LGBT community”.

Mulvaney responded to Jenner’s anti-trans comments against her in a five-minute TikTok video, which was part of her daily vlog journey after coming out as a trans woman.

In the video Mulvaney explained why she no longer had any interest in levelling with Jenner.

“A trans person invalidating another trans person’s transness is pretty evil in my eyes,” Mulvaney said.

“Like, the call is coming from inside the house! It’s coming off as very selfish”.

Various commenters on Caitlyn Jenner’s posts have pointed out her continued support of the Republican Party – which recently moved forward with multiple state legislatures across the US that contained anti-trans bills – indicates she is not supportive of her own community.

US retailer Ulta Beauty was previously inundated with anti-trans hate after it platformed Mulvaney in episode two of its ‘The Beauty Of” series. 

