Caitlyn Jenner claims Republicans will do more for transgender rights than Hillary Clinton

Caitlyn Jenner has claimed that Democratic Presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton only cares about herself.

The former Olympian, who is a staunch Republican, made the claim on her reality show I Am Cait, which has just begun its second season.

During the show, Jenner is discussing politics with her transgender friends, when she insists that the former Secretary of State won’t do anything for trans people, and that Republicans would.

The former Olympian said: “[The Democratic Debate] is the last place I want to be.”

Of the struggle  for trans rights, she said: “We need both sides… if we’re unfortunate enough to get Hillary as our next President, we need her on our side.

“Although she won’t be… she couldn’t care less about women. She only cares about herself.”

When asked exactly which Republican candidates would help trans people, she claims: “All of them. They don’t hate gays or trans people.

“They are more ‘I want a thriving economy so every trans person has a job’.”

Despite her claims, the GOP is overwhelmingly opposed to transgender rights – with state Republican lawmakers across the US attempting to pass ‘bathroom bills’ that permit discrimination against trans women.

Hillary Clinton has repeatedly voiced her support for transgender rights, and has unveiled an extensive raft of transgender-friendly policies in her LGBT rights manifesto.

The candidate’s extensive platform says: “We must do more to end discrimination against the transgender community. Transgender people are twice as likely than the average American to be unemployed, and in a recent national survey, 75 percent of respondents said they had hidden their gender or gender transition to avoid discrimination.

“For a majority of transgender individuals, the simple act of filling out a government form can lead to harassment or questioning. Clinton believes no individual should be held back from fully participating in our society because of their gender identity. At the State Department, Clinton made it possible for transgender Americans to have their true gender reflected on their passports for the very first time.

“As President, she will protect transgender individuals from violence. There is a tragic epidemic of violence against the transgender community. In 2015 alone marks the highest recorded number of transgender homicide victims—nearly all of them women of color. Transgender individuals are also 10 times more likely than the general prison and jail populations to be sexually assaulted.

“Everyone in prison, jail or detention deserves to be safe from assault. To better understand—and end—the incidence of violence, Clinton will direct the U.S. Department of Justice to require that gender identity and sexual orientation data be collected whenever demographic data is collected with respect to programs for victims of crime, and to encourage jurisdictions to improve reporting of hate crimes data based on a victim’s actual or perceived gender identity or sexual orientation.”

It continues: “As President, she will streamline identity documents. Without accurate identity documents, transgender people face obstacles accessing employment, health care, education, housing, and voting.

“Some states require evidence of a medical transition (which not everyone chooses to pursue) to change one’s gender on official documents. As Secretary of State, Clinton worked to remove such barriers for transgender individuals seeking to change their gender marker on their passport.

“As President, Clinton will build on the work of the Obama Administration to ensure the federal government models best practices in allowing transgender individuals to change their gender marker on identification documents, and she will call on states to do the same.”

“As President, she will invest in law enforcement training on interactions with LGBT individuals. Clinton will invest in law enforcement training that focuses on issues such as implicit bias, use of force, and de-escalation, as well as fair and impartial policing including in their interactions with the LGBT community, in particular transgender individuals. It will also focus on educating police officers on correctly identifying bias-motivated crimes.”

Her campaign also promises to “support efforts to allow transgender personnel to serve openly” in the military, and to push to challenge the high levels of homelessness among young trans and LGB people.

Clinton’s Democratic rival Bernie Sanders is the only other candidate to mention transgender rights in his platform – though he lists just one policy.

Senator Sanders has pledged to “require police departments to adopt policies to ensure fairer interactions with transgender people”.

Here’s every promise the Republican candidates have made on transgender rights:

 

.

