Caitlyn Jenner to give lecture on transgender issues in the House of Commons

US reality TV star and transgender rights campaigner Caitlyn Jenner is to address the House of Commons about trans rights.

The lecture, part of Channel 4’s diversity lecture series, will address issues around gender and transphobia. 

Jenner, 68, will in the footsteps of the actors Idris Elba and Riz Ahmed who have previously spoken about their experiences of being ethnic minority and working class. 



A spokesman for the channel said: “The aim of the Channel 4 diversity lecture is to raise awareness and stimulate public debate about diversity issues.

“Caitlyn Jenner is one of the most high-profile transgender people in the world and her transition brought transgender issues into the mainstream, helping to stimulate debate and increase awareness.”

The lecture comes at the start of the broadcaster’s Genderquake season, two weeks of programmes which they hope will “open up the debate on gender.”

Jenner has proved a controversial choice among some to give the talk.

The registered Republican has been an outspoken supporter of US President Trump since he was elected – despite him pursuing a string of policies curbing trans people’s rights.

Jenner ignored warnings from her transgender friends and supported Donald Trump and Mike Pence in 2016, insisting she would not be a “single issue” voter and claiming she could help influence the GOP on LGBT rights. ﻿





Jenner later tweeted: “Trump administration’s latest in a string of attacks on trans people: trans students, trans service members, & now employment protections for trans workers.

“This systematic gutting of non-discrimination protections for trans people is a disgrace!”

Last year she forced to turn down a transgender activism award, following anger and demands that it be rescinded from activists.



The award was from St. John’s Well Child & Family Center, a network of community healthcare centres in Los Angeles.

Jenner had been criticised by many LGBT activists due to her controversial support of anti-LGBT politicians including Ted Cruz and Trump.

