Caitlyn Jenner said to be dating transgender model 47 years younger than her

Caitlyn Jenner is rumoured to be dating a model four decades younger than her.

The 68-year-old’s love life has been much speculated over since she transitioned and left former wife Kris Jenner.

Now she has been romantically linked to model Sophia Hutchins, a woman some 47 years younger than her.



Caitlyn and Sophia have been spotted together at Los Angeles International Airport heading off on what is believed to be their first holiday together to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico.

Caitlyn posted a photo on holiday in Mexico with Sophia’s legs still in the photo.

“To be honest with you, I can’t see myself dating women in the future,” she revealed on her reality series.



“I’ve been there, done that. I’ve got three very strong ex-wives. I just don’t see it.”

She added on theshow: “A future female companion? Yes, I do think about that. 

“A future female sex companion? Not happening, at least for now, and perhaps not ever.”





The rumoured romance will be welcome news after she turned down an award due to controversy.

The transgender celebrity and activist has been heavily criticised by many LGBT activists for her support of President Trump.

She turned down a transgender activism award, following anger and demands that it be rescinded.

The award was from St. John’s Well Child and Family Center, a network of community healthcare centres in Los Angeles.

She was due to receive an honour for her support of their Transgender Health Program, at their Eleganza ball last Saturday.

Although this week she revoked her support for Trump, saying his attacks on trans people were a “disgrace,” many considered this too little too late.

A petition, which demanded that Jenner not be given the award, was started by Ashlee Marie Preston on behalf of Trans Liberation Now, and received over 2000 signatures in four days.

It pointed out the way Jenner has hurt the LGBT community, including when she said trans people were provoking discrimination “by looking like a man in a dress,” and when she opposed same-sex marriage.

Related: Caitlyn Jenner: I’m rich, white and privileged and make no apology

“We will not allow her to carry on as if she is the Christopher Columbus of Trans Identity or the Trans Christ and savior,” the petition said.

“We will NOT continue to allow her to pimp our narratives out for profit, and use us as social experiments that she can mold into an extension of the Kardashian brand.”



Yesterday, Jenner released a statement on her website turning down the award in the “spirit of unity and love.”

“I understand that my presence is distracting from the real purpose of the event, which is to celebrate the important and life-saving work of St. John’s,” she said.

“Trans people understand what it’s like to be judged for who we are, and defined by a world that doesn’t understand us, so let’s present a united front in support of St. John’s Trans Health Program.”

