Canadians Could Face Two Years in Jail For Criticizing Transgender, ‘Gender Fluid’ Ideology

Legislation proposed in Canada by Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party would seek to ban criticism of transgender people or the “gender fluid” ideology, with violators facing up to two years in jail when found guilty.

In a statement issued to commemorate the ‘International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia, and Biphobia,’ Trudeau said “As a society, we have taken many important steps toward recognising and protecting the legal rights for the LGBTQ2 community – from enshrining equality rights in the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms to the passage of the Civil Marriage Act.”

“To do its part, the Government of Canada today will introduce legislation that will help ensure transgender and other gender-diverse people can live according to their gender identity, free from discrimination, and protected from hate propaganda and hate crimes,” it continued.

The bill, proposed last week, states that “This enactment amends the Canadian Human Rights Act to add gender identity and gender expression to the list of prohibited grounds of discrimination.”

It seeks to “extend the protection against hate propaganda set out in that Act to any section of the public that is distinguished by gender identity or expression and to clearly set out that evidence that an offence was motivated by bias, prejudice or hate based on gender identity.”

This idea of fluid gender is in contrast to science-backed view that men and women are born into unchangeably male or female bodies, and that society should help boys and girls, men and women, get the best from their bodies by allowing them sexual privacy and sex-specific facilities and sport leagues. This view also argues that people should create civic rules to help cooperation between the two complementary but different, equal and unchangeable sexes. The most important cooperation, for example, is civic support for marriage and childrearing.

Pro-transgender activists oppose laws and civic culture that promote the existence of the two distinct sexes, which they criticize as “the gender binary.”

Canadian law currently prohibits anti-gay “hate propaganda,” however, proposed legislation promoting transgender rights by New Democratic Party was rejected last year.

Prime Minister Trudeau has previously described himself as a feminist, and has been quoted as saying “I’ll keep calling myself one until there’s no reaction.” He was recently criticised after he allegedly hit a fellow MP in parliament after a heated exchange.

You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at ben@yiannopoulos.net

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

