Chicago Schools Force Students To Use Transgender Language

Chicago Public Schools are telling employees – and even students – that they will be punished if they don’t use government-directed language when debating or talking about sex and gender.

“The guidelines released today will help ensure every student and adult in the CPS family can participate in an environment of complete tolerance and respect,” CPS Chief Education Officer Dr. Janice K. Jackson said in a press release.

Under these new guidelines, students and CPS employees must turn informer and are required to make sure “any incident of discrimination, harassment, or violence is given immediate attention, including investigating the incident and taking appropriate corrective action.”

If students don’t inform on instances of discrimination, for example where a make who wants to be a female is called “he” or “him” in science class — or if they themselves “violate” these guidelines, there will be punishment. The CPS warns:

…the intentional or persistent refusal by students or school staff to respect a student’s gender identity (for example, intentionally referring to the student by a name or pronoun that does not correspond to the student’s gender identity) is a violation of these Guidelines, the Student Code of Conduct, and Comprehensive Non-Discrimination, Title IX and Sexual Harassment Policy.

Even scarier for parents, the new guidelines tell CPS employees that they must conceal from parents evidence that their child is claiming to be transgender and is experimenting with gender-switching while in school, if the child wants the parents excluded.

Officials’ promotion of the gender-fluid agenda has prompted protests from normal students. In Missouri, for example, more than 100 students at Hillsboro High School, near St Louis, walked out of class in September 2015 to protest the school’s decision to allow a 17-year-old boy to pretend he’s a girl. As part of the policy, the youth, who now calls himself “Lila,” was allowed into the girls’ bathrooms and locker rooms.

The federal government only contributes about 7 to 10 cents of each education dollar for school budgets across the country. But with that less than ten percent of funding comes thousands of strict federal rules forcing schools to conform to demands from Washington bypassing parents, local administrators and school boards alike.

In her public statement, CPS administrator Jackson went on to claim “much of the country” has now become “far more aware of the needs and experiences of the transgender community” and that the CPS move was meant to foster “healthy and supportive learning opportunities” for CPS kids.

Even though no student who has claimed to be transgender–or in the latest term “gender non-conforming”–has ever been denied the opportunity to take physical education classes in the CPS, Jackson went on to tout the district’s pledge for such students to be “provided the same opportunities to participate in physical education, sexual health education, sports, clubs and school events as all other students.”

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

