Church head: Transgender inclusion is ‘state sponsored child abuse’

A senior church leader has been slammed for suggesting that there is a ‘special place in hell’ for people who teach kids it’s OK to be transgender.

The claim comes from Rev David Robertson, the Minister of St. Peter’s Free Church in Dundee, Scotland and the former Moderator of the Free Church of Scotland.

Writing in the denomination’s official magazine, the conservative preacher used his platform to lash out at transgender inclusion, before making a link to child abuse.



He wrote: “Jesus would be especially hard on those who bring harm to children. He warned that the lowest place in hell was reserved for them.

“That’s why child sexual abuse within the church is such a hellish abomination.

“Its also why the Christian Church must stand up against the current fanatical ideology of the trans theorists who deny that biology and gender are connected and who think that we can just tell little children that they can choose their own gender.

“Many people have pointed out already (including those who have been involved in this field for many years) that what is now happening is in danger of becoming state sponsored child abuse. I have so many examples of the harm that this is now doing to so many.”

His comments have been condemned by the Scottish government.



Speaking to the Times, a Scottish government spokeswoman said: “Language like this is unacceptable in Scotland where we rightly have a reputation as one of the most progressive countries in relation to LGBTI legal and human rights equality in Europe.”



James Morton, of the Scottish Trans Alliance, added: “Research has shown that when young trans people are supported to express their gender identity they do not have the elevated depression levels seen in trans people who face the kind of hostility perpetrated by Rev Robertson.”

Robertson has a long anti-LGBT track record.

He previously claimed that LGBT-inclusive education is a ‘Trojan horse’ for child abuse.

He made those comments after Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon backed the Time for Inclusive Education (TIE) campaign, committing to bring forward legislation in the Scottish Parliament to make LGBT-inclusive SRE a statutory requirement.

In a column published by The Scotsman, Robertson claimed that “telling five year olds that they can identify as whatever they want, is at best, unwise, and at worst, a form of state sponsored child abuse”.

He said: “The Time for Inclusive Education programme is a Trojan Horse that seeks to indoctrinate all children into this ideology and not allow any diversion from it.

“It’s inclusive only in the sense that it wants to make this compulsory for all children, whatever their families want.”

There are a string of inaccuracies and falsehoods in the piece, which cites already-debunked claims that 80 percent of trans people regret transitioning.

The number comes from a questionable 1995 study based on just 25 children who faced ‘cure’ treatments in Canada, which has been repeatedly debunked by subsequent research.

The piece also claims that the “gender agenda” is “is aimed at young children in a crass attempt to indoctrinate” them, and suggests sex education will result in “giving puberty blockers to primary children”.

Robertson has also previously warned that same-sex marriage will lead to “sexual confusion”.

He claimed: “As the social and economic consequences of this fundamental change to the way our society is structured become increasingly clear, the debate about what marriage is and how society should be governed will continue.”

Robertson has denied that he is homophobic, saying he “objects to being called homophobic just because I continue to hold views” opposing LGBT equality.

