Clueless actress Stacey Dash, who told transgender women to ‘pee in the bushes’, abandons bid for Congress

Clueless former actress Stacey Dash, who recently told transgender women to pee in a bush, has decided to drop her political ambitions.

The Trump-supporting actress, best known as the star of the Nineties chick-flick Clueless, had filed paperwork with the Federal Election Commission to run in California’s 44th District, where she lives.

However, after her political ambitions met with a frosty reception, Dash has now withdrawn on the grounds that she doesn’t want to be a part of ‘Plantation Politics’.

The term refers to the government treating those on the lower end of the social and economic scale badly, with a system that doesn’t offer enough care and support.

Dash said in a statement: “After much prayer, introspection and discussions with my family, I am withdrawing my candidacy for California’s 44th Congressional District.

“I believe we live under a system of ‘Plantation Politics,’ which offers people on the lower end of the economic spectrum little more than symbolic gestures instead of true political empowerment and improvement”.

The former actress has described “the overall bitterness” of US politics as a turn-off, and reckons it would have eventually paid a toll on her and her family’s emotional wellbeing.

She had also said her “goal was to improve the lives of people that had been forgotten by decades by the Democratic Party”.

The actress had little chance of winning the seat,  which is a heavily-Democrat district that voted 83 percent for Hillary Clinton.





In addition to calling for the abolition of black history month, Dash has previously told transgender women to pee in the bushes outside, rather than use public bathrooms.

Ranting about Caitlyn Jenner and transgender rights, Dash said: “[Caitlyn] says she wants to go into the women’s bathroom and she’s a woman now.

“It’s tyranny by the minority. Why do I have to suffer because you can’t decide what you want to be that day? … It’s your body! So, it’s your decision, right? We all make choices.”

“Gin the bushes. I don’t know what to tell you, but I’m not gonna put my child’s life at risk because you want to change a law. So that you can be comfortable with your beliefs — which means I have to change my beliefs and my rights? No.”

Dash has also insisted that it is “propaganda”to say that the Republican Party is opposed to equal marriage.

She said: “That’s just propaganda. It’s not true, you know?

“That’s a certain amount of people, you can’t just throw a blanket over everyone because certain people have one opinion.”

The Republican party platform states: “We believe that marriage, the union of one man and one woman must be upheld as the national standard, a goal to stand for, encourage, and promote through laws governing marriage.”

Not every celebrity political wannabe is as clueless, however.

Sex and the City star Cynthia Nixon, a long-time LGBT activist, recently announced her bid to become Governor of New York in a Democratic primary challenge to Gov. Andrew Cuomo

Nixon is massively out-fundraising Cuomo with individual donors – and her campaign is also going viral courtesy of one of her opponents.

Hitting out at Nixon’s left-wing challenge earlier this month, the former Speaker of the New York City Council Christine Quinn branded her an “unqualified lesbian”.



Nixon has taken the insult in her stride.

The candidate – who is massively out-fundraising Cuomo with individual donors – is now giving out badges on her website bearing the phrase.

 

