Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene thinks Democrats are going to turn ‘kids gay and transgender’

Georgia congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene has said she thinks Democrats are trying to “turn kids gay and transgender”, in a confusing celebration of Elon Musk.

Musk is currently facing allegations from a former employee at his company SpaceX, who claims that he exposed himself to her on a private jet, groped her, and offered to buy her a horse if she performed sexual acts.

The world’s richest man has blasted the allegations as “wild” and “utterly untrue”, although documents show his company paid the former employeee $250,000 to settle the complaint.

Marjorie Taylor Greene discussed Musk in an episode of her podcast MTG Live, and started by asking for him to call into her podcast and leave her a voicemail letting her know if she could have her personal Twitter account back – Greene was permanently banned from the platform earlier this year for spreading misinformation about COVID-19.

She insisted that Musk was doing “a great job”, and called for her viewers to “all celebrate that he’s finally stopped being a Democrat!”

She congresswoman referred to a tweet from Musk on Wednesday (18 May), in which he said: “In the past I voted Democrat, because they were (mostly) the kindness party.

“But they have become the party of division and hate, so I can no longer support them and will vote Republican. Now, watch their dirty tricks campaign against me unfold…”

Greene was thrilled, but said that these “dirty tricks” were sure to happen because “we’ve seen it happen over and over”.

She explained: “If anyone was a Democrat steps out of line because they’ve decided they can’t go along with the horrible, disgusting, and failing ways of the Democrats, and they actually see the light, see the truth, they go, ‘You know, I’m going to try voting Republican because these people over here make sense.

“‘They like everybody, they think our constitution is for everyone, they don’t want to turn your kids gay and have, you know, transgender, and they don’t want to kill babies in the womb.'”

She added: “They start voting Republican like Elon says he’s going to do, and what happens? Oh boy, they come after you.”

Strangely, Greene didn’t discuss the allegations against Musk, but instead segued into a segment on demon possession.

