Daily Mail attacks transgender 15-year-old

The Daily Mail has torn into a transgender teenager living in Australia who has won the right to begin gender reassignment surgery.

The 15-year-old, who has been living as male for three years, won the Family Court battle to have top surgery.



The teen, known as Lincoln, found binders uncomfortable and was relying on baggy clothing. He had to go through court proceedings to gain access to the surgery because of his age.

The courts in Australia permit transgender children to start hormone treatment at age 13, but gender surgery is not permitted until 18.

Lincoln is supported by his family in his transition.

In covering the story, the Daily Mail misgendered the teenager. Saying that they won the court battle “to have her breasts removed to ‘look and feel’ like a boy.”

The paper also said that Lincoln “refused to wear female clothing, cut his hair short and started to self-harm.”

Much of the criticism came down to Lincoln’s age, and they implied that he should have been living as male for longer despite identifying as a male since he was 12.

They wrote: “The 15-year-old had only been living as a male for three years, unlike many transgender cases where a child lives as the opposite sex from a young age.”

This year has seen the Daily Mail get upset at LGBT progression multiple times.

Recently, the paper were furious at an informative transgender show for children.

They claimed that parents were angry about the show ‘sowing the seeds of confusion’ into young viewers minds.

They reported that on the forum Mumsnet, parents wrote that they were ‘upset’ over the idea of gender being introduced to their child at a young age.

The Mail presented an array of negative comments from former MP’s, child psychotherapists and family campaigners, including Tory MP Peter Bone.

Transgender child support charity Mermaids also came under fire because they allegedly ‘bullied’ a school and social services into allowing a child to present as female.

Mermaids CEO Susie Green told PinkNews: “Maybe if more were known about trans issues then we would see a reduction in the hatred and prejudice that the trans community face, and start to celebrate difference and the fact that everyone has a right to live their life without fear just for being who they are.”

You can read about more ridiculous times the Daily Mail got upset about gay people in 2016 here.

