Dave Chappelle makes fun of transgender people, again, in Netflix special

US comedian Dave Chappelle has made fun of transgender people in his new stand-up special on Netflix, ‘Sticks & Stones’.

In the hour-long special, released August 26, Chappelle also said he doesn’t believe the people who say Michael Jackson molested them and defends controversial comedians Kevin Hart and Louis C.K.

Trans people “hate my fucking guts and I don’t blame them” Chappelle said in ‘Sticks & Stones’, adding that he “can’t stop writing jokes” about the trans community.

“What I didn’t realise at the time was that I was breaking an unwritten and unspoken rule of show business,” Chappelle said.

“No matter what you do in your artistic expression, you are never, ever, allowed to upset the alphabet people. You know who I mean. Those people who took 20% of the alphabet for themselves. I’m talking about them Ls and Bs and Gs and the Ts.”

“I feel bad for the Ts,” he adds. “But they’re so confusing … the fact is if a person can be born in the wrong body, they have to admit that’s a f—ing hilarious predicament.”

Chappelle then goes on to do a racist impression of a Chinese person, pretending that Chinese is “how I feel inside”.

He continues in the same vein: “Say Lebron James changed his gender… can he stay in the NBA? Or does he have to go to the WNBA, where he will score 800 points a game?”

In ‘Sticks & Stones’, Chappelle also sparked controversy by claiming he doesn’t believe the men who accused Michael Jackson of sexual abuse.

He also said that he supports disgraced comedian Louis C.K.

“This is the worst time ever to be a celebrity,“ he said, adding: ”Louis CK was a very good friend of mine before he died in that terrible masturbation accident.“

‘Sticks & Stones’ is not the first time Chappelle has mocked the trans community.

In a January 2018 Netflix special called ‘Equanimity’, he addressed the criticism he’d received for anti-trans jokes.

“You know who hates me the most?” he said. “The transgender community.”



