Dave Chappelle Attacker Says He was ‘Triggered’ by LGBTQ Jokes

Isaiah Lee, the man who was caught on camera charging comedian Dave Chappelle during a live performance at the Hollywood Bowl earlier this month, has now revealed a motive for his alleged attack: jokes.

“I identify as bisexual … and I wanted him to know what he said was triggering,” Lee said. “I wanted him to know that next time, he should consider first running his material by people it could affect.”

According to Lee, he attended the Netflix is a Joke show at the Hollywood Bowl on May 3 for the entertainment value until he grew angry and frustrated over jokes Chappelle made knocking LGBTQ snowflakes as well as homelessness.

Dave Chappelle just got attacked on stage 

 pic.twitter.com/E4gAfmkPgQ

— Hoodville (@Hoodville_) May 4, 2022

Lee claims his breaking point occurred when another comedian cracked a joke about pedophilia.

When he charged the stage, Dave Chappelle’s security team immediately jumped Lee and beat him to the point of inflicting serious injury.

The idiot getting beaten down after attacking Dave Chappelle at Hollywood Bowl pic.twitter.com/Ft0FIUyjWv

— Jed Simon (@JEDSIMON) May 4, 2022

The attack on Dave Chappelle came weeks after actor Will Smith rushed the stage during the Oscars telecast and slapped comedian Chris Rock for cracking a joke about his wife’s haircut. Comedians have since said Smith set the precedent for hecklers to attack comedians whose jokes abruptly “trigger” them.

***LANGUAGE WARNING***



“I thought that that opened the flood gates,” Howie Mandel said. “We’re already as comedians being attacked as far as being canceled for something that you don’t like, something that you find offensive, something that you think is too soon.”

“You saw what happened at the Academy Awards, and I thought that just triggers — violence triggers violence. And I think this is the beginning of the end for comedy,” Mandel added.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

