Disney’s Marvel spin-off Loki will introduce a transgender superhero, according to reports

Loki – the upcoming Disney+ Marvel series – is set to introduce the transgender superhero Sera.

A month after Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige backtracked on a pledge to introduce trans characters to the big screen, it appears he will instead be bringing trans representation to the streaming end of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU).

Loki – one of a number of MCU shows in development at Disney+ – will reportedly introduce Sera, often referred to as Marvel Comics’ first trans superhero.

Sera is one of a race of wingless angels known as The Anchorites. The Anchorites are all assigned male at birth, however Sera has always known that she was a woman.

According to The Illuminerdi. Sera will appear as a major supporting character in the Tom Hiddleston-fronted series, and will potentially cross over to future MCU movies.

The site explains that the casting notice for a trans actor in her 20s or 30s, which made headlines in the summer, was actually for Loki and not, as was thought at the time, Thor: Love and Thunder.

In the comics, Sera is the girlfriend of Thor’s long-lost half-sister Angela.

Many had speculated that she could become a love interest for Valkyrie, who actor Tessa Thompson confirmed would be getting a same-sex love interest in Love and Thunder.

“As new king, she needs to find her queen,” Thompson told fans at the San Diego Comic-Con 2019.

With Disney+’s Loki rumoured to be a time-travel adventure, there’s still every chance that Sera could hook up with Valkyrie in the future.

Before then, Marvel will introduce its first LGBT+ superhero in The Eternals, due for release on November 6.

The 25th film in the MCU, it focuses on a team of immortal aliens who have been living secretly on Earth for more than 7,000 years.

One member, Phastos (Brian Tyree Henry), is married to another man and has two children.

Feige revealed the news in August, telling Good Morning America: “He’s married, he’s got a family, and that is just part of who he is.”

Loki is expected to land on Disney+ in Spring 2021. Thor: Love and Thunder will follow on November 6, 2021.

