Disney Holds Emergency Town Hall to Appease LGBTQ Employees, Vows to Fight Texas Transgender Measure

The Walt Disney Co. has held an emergency town hall meeting in an effort to appease LGBTQ employees who are engaging in company-wide walkouts in protest of executive leadership, according to multiple reports.

“I and the leadership team are determined to use this moment as a catalyst for more meaningful and lasting change,” Chapek said at the opening of the meeting, according to a report from The Wall Street Journal.

Disney also said it would create an internal LGBTQ task force that will engage with LGBTQ employees, community partners, and content creators.

Democrats have smeared the legislation as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill even thought the text doesn’t mention “gay.” Despite an avalanche of negative media coverage, the Florida senate recently passed the bill, paving the way for Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) to sign it into law.

DeSantis has slammed Disney for backtracking on its initial refusal to take sides on the Florida bill.

“When you have companies that have made a fortune off being family-friendly and catering to families and young kids, they should understand that parents of young kids do not want this injected into their kid’s kindergarten classroom,” he said.

In Texas, Gov. Abbott has asked state agencies to investigate parents of children undergoing transgender procedures, including irreversible hormone treatment. A state appeals court has put in place a temporary injunction blocking the governor’s measure.

Disney will now aggressively oppose Abbott’s initiative as part of its commitment to LGBTQ activism.

The town hall meeting on Monday was held in lieu of a planned executive retreat.   As Breitbart reported, Disney employees are organizing a series of walkouts to pressure executives into backing their radical LGBT agenda.

The walkouts are happening despite Chapek’s earlier apology for not opposing the Florida bill.

Follow David Ng on Twitter @HeyItsDavidNg. Have a tip? Contact me at dng@breitbart.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

