Dolly Parton has a perfect response to transgender bathroom bans

 

Dolly Parton has responded to a wave of anti-trans legislation across the US.

More than 20 bills have been filed across the States attempting to repeal vital LGBT rights protections, purportedly in order to stop transgender women from using the female bathrooms.

Many of the bills actually have wider implications for LGBT equality as they create exemptions from anti-discrimination protections, as do laws passed in North Carolina and Mississippi.

Gay icon Dolly Parton, who visited North Carolina on her recent tour despite the law, said that while she has tried to avoid political intervention, everyone deserves the right to pee.


She told CNN: “I think everybody should be treated with respect.

“I don’t judge people and I try not to get too caught up in the controversy of things. I hope that everybody gets a chance to be who and what they are.”

“I just know, if I have to pee, I’m gon’ pee, wherever it’s got to be.”

The singer previously said she would perform in North Carolina because she doesn’t “like to get caught up in controversial issues.”

“I have no plans to cancel the show,” Parton said earlier this year asked her about North Carolina’s anti-LGBT House Bill 2.

“I believe that everybody ought to be treated with respect, but I feel we will serve better from the stage,” she added.

“I don’t like to get caught up in controversial issues.”


However, the country superstar did promise to “address whatever I need to from the stage.”

Many fans are hoping Parton – who cemented her gay icon status when she appeared in 9 to 5 opposite Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin – will use her platform to criticise the law, like other stars who have performed in the state.

She has become a popular target for female impersonators and drag artists.

The heavily criticised ‘bathroom bill’ – signed into law by Governor Pat McCrory – restricts the rights of trans people to use a gender-appropriate bathroom, as well as prohibiting local authorities from passing bills to protect LGBT people.

Nick Jonas, Demi Lovato, Bruce Springsteen and Ringo Starr are among celebrities to ditch appearances in the state after Governor Pat McCrory signed HB2 into law.

Other acts – like Mumford & Sons and Cyndi Lauper – have carried on with North Carolina shows, with proceeds from those gigs benefitting organisations in the state actively fighting the bill.

Despite the huge financial costs, McCrory continues to insist the changes are “common sense”, despite legal action threatening to cost the state millions, combined with thousands of job losses.

