Donald Trump’s judicial nominee who said transgender children are ‘Satan’s plan’ has suffered a setback

A senior Republican has knocked back President Donald Trump’s judicial nominee who said that transgender children were “Satan’s plan.”

Jeff Mateer, who is up for a federal judgeship, also said that same-sex marriage would lead to people marrying trees, as well as polygamy and bestiality.

He also expressed dismay at gay ‘cure’ therapy being banned, and is anti-same-sex adoption.

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley is advising the White House to “reconsider” the controversial pick, according to CNN.

He has also told the Trump administration to that it “should not proceed” with the nomination of Brett Talley, who has told The Washington Post that he opposes same-sex marriage.

Talley, 36, was picked by Trump to become a federal judge in Alabama, despite having never tried a case and receiving a “not qualified” rating from the American Bar Association.

Grassley, who has been serving Iowa in the Senate for 36 years, gave the recommendations after Mateer’s comments were made public.

Mateer, who is the first assistant attorney general of Texas, would serve on the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, if confirmed.



He was serving as general counsel of the religious freedom group First Liberty Institute.

In a speech in May 2015 called “The Church and Homosexuality,” Mateer talked about a case in Colorado, where the parents of a young transgender girl sued her school for not allowing her to use the girl’s bathroom. 

“I forget the sex, she’s a girl who thinks she’s a boy or a boy who thinks she’s a girl, it’s probably that, a boy who thinks she’s a girl,” Mateer said.

He added that “it just really shows you how Satan’s plan is working and the destruction that’s going on.”

He then addressed the Supreme Court’s ruling that allowed same-sex marriage, which had occurred only a few months before.

He said that now that same-sex marriage was allowed, there would be “no line,” that “disgusting” sex acts would be normalised.

“Why couldn’t four people wanna get married? Why not one man and three women? Or three women and one man?

“And we’re gonna spare you some of those slides. We actually have a presentation that we get into it.

“And I’ll tell you, we say it’s PG-13, it may be R, or what do they call the next one? NC-17 or whatever?”

He continued: “There are people who marry themselves.

“Somebody wanted to marry a tree. People marrying their pets.

“You read the New Testament and you read about all the things and you think, ‘Oh, that’s not going on in our community.’

“Oh, yes it is. We’re back to that time where debauchery rules.”

Watch Mateer’s horrifying comments here: 


