Donald Trump-backed Senate candidate: ‘The transgenders don’t have rights’

Anti-LGBT+ Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore has heavily criticised transgender rights in a press conference attacking his opponent.

This was then followed by Moore using  recent sexual abuse allegations to support fundraising efforts for his campaign. 

The former chief justice held a press conference this week where he received the formal support from thirteen of Alabama’s sheriffs.

In this press conference, Moore attacked his Democratic opponent Doug Jones for his support for LGBT+ people.

A particular criticism was aimed at Jones’ support for transgender people, with Moore saying: “The transgenders don’t have rights.”

“They’ve never been denominated as having rights by the U.S. Supreme Court. [Jones] believes in transgender bathrooms and transgenders in the military. I disagree with him 100 percent.”

Throughout his tenure as a chief justice and his subsequent dismissal for repeatedly trying to prevent equal marriage in Alabama, Moore has continuously been against rights for LGBT+ people.

The Trump supported US Senate candidate has previously said that transgender people are mentally ill.

Related: A third of Americans think society has gone too far in accepting transgender people

During his election campaign for the vacant seat in the US Senate, Moore has also said that homosexuality should be illegal.

On Thursday, significant allegations involving sexual abuse of a 14-year-old were made against Moore following an investigation by the Washington Post.

In a statement aboard Air Force One, President Trump said that Moore “will do the right thing and step aside” if the allegations of sexual abuse were proved to be true.



Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell echoed this statement, saying: “If these allegations are true, he must step aside.”

In the wake of these allegations, Moore sent a fundraising email to his supporters.

The email referenced “filthy and sleazy attacks” from the Democrats and later went on to ask supporters to help by “chipping in a donation” to assist Moore’s campaign.

Moore continued by saying: “I refuse to stand down.”

Whilst Moore is able to resign or be fired, the Alabama Republican party are unable to replace him on the ballot as the ballots themselves have been printed and sent to those requiring a postal vote.

A write-in candidate is possible should Moore resign or be fired, but write-in candidates have not historically performed as well as a traditionally selected candidate.

This may mean that the Republican party would risk losing the election should they fire Moore or if he resigns in the wake of these allegations.

The Democrats have not won a Senate election in Alabama since 1990.

The election will be held on December 12.

