Dwyane Wade’s Trans Child Makes First Red Carpet Appearance as ‘Zaya’ at Truth Awards

Dwyane Wade and Gabrielle Union‘s son, Zion, made his first red carpet appearance Saturday as “Zaya,” a transgender girl.

Zaya stepped out in a green tuxedo jacket over a green satin shirt, with a pink sash over black pants. Zaya also wore a diamond necklace and carried a small pink clutch purse.

“Everyone allow her to re-introduce herself her name is Zaya Wade! Last night was Zaya’s first red carpet and we couldn’t have been prouder of how she handled the questions that were asked of her. She has emerged as one of the young faces and voices for the LGBTQ+ community,” Wade wrote.



 Everyone allow her to re-introduce herself her name is Zaya Wade! Last night was Zaya’s first red carpet and we couldn’t have been prouder of how she handled the questions that were asked of her. She has emerged as one of the young faces and voices for the LGBTQ+ community. #truthawards

A post shared by  dwyanewade (@dwyanewade) on Mar 8, 2020 at 6:20am PDT

Wade’s wife, actress Gabrielle Union, also celebrated on Instagram:



 We keep moving forward. We keep leading with love, light, and hope for a better more inclusive world. Stay put and stay mad if you want. We keep it pushing. Always. ❤❤❤

A post shared by  Gabrielle Union-Wade (@gabunion) on Mar 8, 2020 at 10:25am PDT

This “re-introduction” comes a month after the couple went public to proudly support their son, Zion Malachi Airamis Wade, who decided to be known as a transgender girl named Zaya going forward.

Wade went on to explain that his son now wants to live “her truth.”

“Zion, born as a boy, came home and said, ‘Hey, so I want to talk to you guys. I think going forward, I am ready to live my truth. I want to be referenced as ‘she’ and ‘her.’ I would love for you guys to call me Zaya,’” Wade said.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Facebook at: facebook.com/Warner.Todd.Huston.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

