Elliot Page: Wearing a Dress to ‘Juno’ Premiere ‘Literally Almost Killed Me’

Elliot Page, formerly Ellen Page, lamented having to wear a dress at the premiere of the critically acclaimed hit movie Juno at the Toronto International Film Festival in 2007.

“When ‘Juno’ was at the height of its popularity, during awards-season time, I was closeted, dressed in heels and the whole look — I wasn’t okay, and I didn’t know how to talk about that with anyone,” Page said. “I think of times when people actively were like, ‘No, you need to wear a dress’ in very, very, very pivotal moments.”

Page recalled wanting to “wear a suit” to the premiere only to have Fox Searchlight tell her no.

“I said I wanted to wear a suit, and Fox Searchlight was basically like, ‘No, you need to wear a dress.’ And they took me in a big rush to one of those fancy stores on Bloor Street,” Page recalled. “They had me wear a dress, and  that was that. And then all the ‘Juno’ press, all the photo shoots — [co-star] Michael Cera was in slacks and sneakers. I look back at the photos, and I’m like . . .?”

To critics that might criticize her complaint, the X-Men star said having to wear a dress “literally did almost kill me.”

“This sounds strange to people, and I get that people don’t understand. Oh, fuck you, you’re famous, and you have money, and you had to wear a dress, boo-hoo. I don’t not understand that reaction. But that’s mixed with: I wish people would understand that that shit literally did almost kill me,” said Page.



A post shared by @elliotpage

The actor made a similar lamentation in 2021 about her experience at the premiere of Christopher Nolan’s Inception.

“There was so much press and so many premieres all around the world and I was wearing dresses and heels to pretty much every single event,” Page told Oprah Winfrey.

Page said that a horrible panic attack occurred at the Paris premiere after a staff member brought three dresses as formal wear options for the film’s initial screening.

“I lost it, it was like a cinematic moment. That night, after the premiere at the after-party, I collapsed. That’s something that’s happened frequently in my life, usually corresponding with a panic attack,” Page said. “Ultimately, of course, it’s every experience you’ve had since you were a toddler, people saying, ‘The way you’re sitting is not ladylike, you’re walking like a boy. The music you’re listening to as a teenager,’ obviously, the way you dress. Every single aspect of who you are constantly being looked at and put in a box in a very binary system. That’s what it leads to.”

Page came out as transgender and non-binary in early December 2020, roughly six years after coming out as a lesbian.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

