Examining Leftist Thinking

The question that’s been preying on my mind is who is best suited to study those strange beings known as liberals.   It strikes me that they’d be fit subjects for psychiatrists, who might be in a position to figure out why they revere the people they do — people such as Hugo Chavez, Fidel Castro, Al Gore and Ted Kennedy — men who haven’t a single notable accomplishment to their name, aside from either winning elections or eliminating them altogether.   Or perhaps it would be more appropriate for biologists to delve into the left-wing organism, and determine how it is possible that creatures without brains could have survived so long in an often hostile environment.




Speaking of liberal goofiness brings us inevitably to Barack Hussein Obama, as he now proudly identifies himself — at least when he’s addressing Muslims, praising Muslims and, as usual, slandering America.   By the way, isn’t it the least bit odd that he never condemns Muslim-extremists for clinging to their religion and their suicide bombs?   And even if you’re a liberal, doesn’t it seem peculiar that during his speech in Egypt, he didn’t take a moment to mention how much blood and national treasure America has spent — and, I would suggest, wasted — defending Muslims in Somalia, Kuwait, Iraq, Kosovo and Afghanistan?  

But, then, we mustn’t forget that this is the same chap who went to France and took the opportunity to apologize for America’s arrogance without once mentioning the number of American G.I.s who died, making sure that the French wouldn’t have to give up wine and foie gras for beer and bratwurst.  

Before setting off for the Middle East, where he gave a thumbs-up to Iran’s nuclear program while condemning Israel for building houses, Obama mentioned that America is home to one of the world’s largest Muslim populations.   As anyone with even a passing interest in facts would know, there are roughly three million Muslims in the United States.   Just to give you some idea of how far off Obama was, Indonesia has 195 million, Pakistan has 160 million, India has 154 million.   Even Burkina Faso, a place you’ve never even heard of, has seven million.   There are, as one of his advisers should have told him before he shot off his mouth, roughly 40 countries in the world  with larger Muslim populations than America.  

But, then, as we all know, Obama has notoriously weak math skills.   It certainly explains why he announced during the campaign that that the U.S. is made up of 57 states.   Heck, it may even help explain the way he tosses around our money.   It’s a scary thought, but isn’t it just possible that he can’t really tell the difference between million, billion and trillion?  

BurtPrelutsky@aol.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

