Exclusive — Watch: James Lindsay Lambasts Doctors Who Give Children ‘Surgeries that Mutilate Their Bodies’

WASHINGTON, District of Columbia — Author and conservative commentator Dr. James Lindsay spoke with Breitbart News about how the transgender movement and their doctors are giving children “drugs that sterilize them” and “surgeries that mutilate their bodies.”

When asked if conservatives should start speaking of the issue bluntly, referring to the “medical malpractice” in terms of “genital mutilation” and “chemical castration” as well as showing unadulterated images of what double mastectomies look like, among other things, Lindsay said he thinks it is a “good strategy” but warned that politicians are not doing enough to push the conversation in that direction.

“You are taking children and you’re giving them drugs that sterilize them, you’re giving them surgeries that mutilate their bodies,” he said. “Images of that should be seen images of that — fairly, I mean, reasonably, but fairly — and honestly graphic descriptions.”

Speaking of someone on Twitter who described their daily life after getting the “bottom surgery” — the transgender movement nomenclature for genital mutilation — Lindsay said, “It’s horrific.”

“Describing what it’s like just to go to the bathroom after the bottom surgery, as it’s called, that they went through. It’s a horrific description, the description of what their life is like on a daily basis,” he said. “That reality needs to be shared alongside the fact that they’re selling the dream. The old saying in sales is always, you know, they sell the dream, we service a nightmare. So somebody’s out there selling the dream, but people are not actually even allowed to talk about or describe or show the nightmare.”

“On the other hand, the trans lobby goes after them like Muslims going after apostates — literal almost, you know, fatwas against them,” he continued.

Lindsay argued their stories need to be told so that people who are attempting to do this to children can see what kind of damage it will cause.

“We’re talking about children being led to believe that these surgeries, these hormones, these chemicals like Lupron are going to solve their problems instead of putting them in a position where they may have a little temporary relief, but then they have fewer options to solve their problems later,” he said. “And they actually make their circumstances worse.”

Lindsay spoke with Breitbart News at the Young America’s Foundation’s 44th annual National Conservative Student Conference in the nation’s capital.

Watch the full interview here:

Breccan F. Thies is a reporter for Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter @BreccanFThies.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

