Federal Appeals Court Reinstates Longstanding Policy on Transgender Troops

WASHINGTON, DC – Federal appellate judges in D.C. dissolved a trial court injunction on Friday that had been blocking President Donald Trump’s decision to continue the decades-long policy banning transgender individuals from military service, but the policy continues to be blocked by other courts as the Supreme Court prepares to vote on reviewing the matter.

As one Supreme Court filing in these cases explains, “The vast majority of Americans from ages 17 to 24 – that is, 71% – are ineligible to join the military without a waiver for mental, medical, or behavioral reasons.” Transgender individuals are among that who are ineligible.

Three legal challenges are progressing in federal court against President Trump’s decision, even though all it did was maintain the status quo. Plaintiffs chose their courts well, and liberal judges from California, New York, and D.C. each issued injunctions blocking the longstanding policy and ordering the military to start allowing transgender servicemembers.

Each of those districts are in left-leaning circuits for their courts of appeals. Anticipating potential losses, the Department of Justice took the rare step of petitioning the Supreme Court to grant certiorari (i.e., taken the case for review) before the appellate courts issue final decisions on the merits of the case.

However, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated the D.C. district court’s decision, dissolving the injunction.

The case is Doe 2 v. Trump, No. 18-35347 in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

The current petition for certiorari before judgment is No. 18-677 at the Supreme Court of the United States, which may now be replaced with a standard cert petition because an appellate judgment has been issued in the case.

The petitions for certiorari before judgment in the other two cases are Trump v. Karnoski, No. 18-676, and Trump v. Stockman, No. 18-678, in the Supreme Court of the United States.

Ken Klukowski is senior legal editor for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @kenklukowski.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

