Feminist Sues Twitter After She Was Blacklisted for Saying Men Aren’t Women

Meghan Murphy, the founder of the radical feminist blog Feminist Current, has filed a lawsuit against Twitter after the social network blacklisted her in November for stating that men are not women.

The posts which reportedly led to Murphy’s ban was, “Women aren’t men,” and “How are transwomen not men? What is the difference between a man and a transwoman?”

“Twitter covertly made sweeping changes to its Hateful Conduct Policy sometime in late October 2018 banning, for the first time, ‘misgendering or deadnaming of transgender individuals.’ This new policy banned expression of a political belief and perspective held by a majority (54%, according to a 2017 Pew Research poll) of the American public: that whether someone is a man or a woman is determined by the sex they were assigned at birth,” the complaint declared. “Moreover, Twitter failed to provide any sort of notice to its users of this controversial new policy, one which significantly affected their rights and obligations with respect to their use of the platform, a clear violation of its contract with its users. And it retroactively enforced its new policy against the plaintiff in this case, Meghan Murphy.”

In a post on Facebook, Murphy detailed how the “first news report on these new rules was published TWENTY MINUTES after” she was banned, and pointed out that the social network “allows porn, as well as accounts that enable sex trafficking, on their platform, but ban women who speak the truth about material reality and challenge the idea that individuals can change sex through self-declaration.”

“They hide behind Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in order to defend their allowance of illegal activities, violent threats, and pornography on the platform, but then shut down and silence women who share opinions and arguments they don’t like, or attempt to hold predatory men to account,” she continued, adding, “Twitter is not going to get away with this hypocritical, dishonest, entirely sketchy and unlawful behaviour. We cannot allow multi billion dollar companies to dictate free speech!”

Murphy also made a long YouTube video explaining why she decided to file a lawsuit against Twitter, and a website is taking donations for the legal battle.

“The big tech giants are counting on users to quietly accept their bans and not stand up for their rights. But Murphy is fighting back against the attempts of powerful social media conglomerates to silence her and millions of others,” the site claimed. “She has filed a lawsuit on behalf of everyone who has had their voices silenced by social media censorship.”

After her ban in November, Murphy wrote an article for Quillette claiming formerly “banal” statements have become “heresy — akin to terrorist speech.”

Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington, or like his page at Facebook.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

