Florida Blasts Joe Biden’s ‘Unscientific’ Approach: Social Gender Transition ‘Should Not Be a Treatment Option for Children or Adolescents’

The Florida Department of Health on Wednesday released guidance on how to treat gender dysmorphia in children and adolescents in response to the Biden administration’s plea for what it calls “gender-affirming” care, making it clear that social gender transition, as well as gender reassignment surgery, “should not be a treatment option for children or adolescents.”

“A safe and affirming healthcare environment is critical in fostering better outcomes for transgender, nonbinary, and other gender expansive children and adolescents,” the guidance states in part, ultimately advocating for social affirmation, puberty blockers, hormone therapy, and even transition surgeries on adolescents suffering from gender dysmorphia:

US: The Biden administration is pushing the gender affirmative model of care hard through US govt agencies. Note the ages for each medical treatment. Cross sex hormones for “early adolescents”.  Surgery for adults – and adolescents “on a case by case basis”. https://t.co/n7mtFJhJG7

— Genspect (@genspect) April 17, 2022

Today, the Florida Department of Health released  guidance pushing back on @HHSGov unscientific shift in the treatment of gender dysphoria for children and adolescents.

The press release is available here: https://t.co/JsE4HcYOUD… pic.twitter.com/vmWQhBsaai

— Florida Dept. of Health (@HealthyFla) April 20, 2022

“These gender extremists are insisting that we accept their feelings as science, yet they do not consider the feelings of others,” said Beth Stelzer, a female powerlifter and founder of Save Women’s Sports. https://t.co/gLxH8hol6y

— Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) October 9, 2019

“It was about injecting political ideology into the health of our children. Children experiencing gender dysphoria should be supported by family and seek counseling, not pushed into an irreversible decision before they reach 18,” he said.

The guidance comes in response to the Biden administration’s overt commitment to advancing the radical LGBT agenda, as President Biden himself has touted the unscientific position, urging parents to affirm their child’s identity and calling it “one of the most powerful things you can do to keep them safe and healthy.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

