Gay, lesbian couples flock to Calif. courts to wed

(AP) Gay, lesbian couples flock to Calif. courts to wedBy GILLIAN FLACCUSAssociated PressJubilant gay and lesbian couples flocked to city halls and county courthouses across California to wed with pets, siblings and kids in tow as same-sex marriages resumed across the state following a five-year legal hiatus.

Last week, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to rule on the constitutional merits of that ban _ called Proposition 8 _ and a lower court on Friday said same-sex marriages could resume. On Sunday, Justice Anthony Kennedy rejected a last-ditch appeal.

While a few lucky couples were able to score marriage licenses before government offices closed and wed late Friday and scores of others tied the knot at San Francisco City Hall over the weekend, Monday was the day many couples had been awaiting for years.

In West Hollywood, where about 40 percent of the population is gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender, the City Council was deputized to perform nuptials. Free shuttles ran from court to near City Hall.

Twenty couples were married within the first 45 minutes Monday and a line grew throughout the morning.

In the smaller, rural counties, the scene was more subdued but joyous.

In Shasta County, one couple wed before 9 a.m., said County Clerk Cathy Darling Allen, but the county will perform same-sex weddings on an as-needed basis to supplement its regular twice weekly ceremonies for couples.

Though ceremonies were taking place throughout the state, gay marriage opponents say they still believe that marriage is between a man and a woman.

In Sacramento, opponents were less visible Monday than during the lengthy legal saga. Fewer than a dozen protesters gathered outside the clerk-recorder’s office holding large signs that read “GOD has ruled on marriage” and “Marriage(equals)1 Man+1 Woman.” One man shouted at couples through a bullhorn. The protesters left by midmorning.

___

DOGS IN TUXEDOS

On Monday, they made sure they were first in line.

Darby, a 26-year-old emergency medical technician, and Scofield, a 42-year-old elementary school teacher, pitched lawn chairs outside the historic brick building before 6 a.m. and waited with their two tuxedo-clad Chihuahua-terrier mixes.

Binks and Pepito weren’t allowed inside for the ceremony, but Darby and Scofield were thrilled to be the first same-sex couple married in the county since 2008.

The couple met while bowling two years ago and had planned to tie the knot in New York, which is Darby’s home state and where same-sex marriage was already legal. The chance to wed in California, however, was too much to pass up.

After exchanging tearful “I dos” in front of a simple wooden altar adorned with fake flowers, the newlyweds posed for photos with other gay and lesbian couples and their mutts.

Then they headed for Disneyland.

___

HELPING OUT OTHERS

FRESNO, Calif. _ Susan Stewart has legally married her same-sex partner twice _ once in Canada and once in California. So when gay marriages resumed in California, Stewart was there to support others doing the same.

The second-grade teacher stood in the shade outside the county clerk’s office and handed out pretzel wedding favors (tied in knots), frosted cupcakes and _ most importantly _ bottled water to couples on a blazing day expected to reach 111 degrees.

Stewart, who wore a T-shirt emblazoned with the word “Equalifornia,” said she and her partner were among the couples who rushed to marry in 2008.

She said the new crop of brides and grooms seems older, more mature and in less of a hurry.

___

SHUTTLE TO LOVE

WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif. _ Wanda Lawson, 63, and Lauryne Braithwaite, 65, met 32 years ago at a technical college and have been together ever since _ but they didn’t get organized in time to wed in 2008.

The two were among the first to take advantage of free ceremonies all day Monday in West Hollywood, where the City Council was deputized to conduct weddings.

A free bus service shuttled beaming couples between the Beverly Hills courthouse, where they got a marriage license, and West Hollywood for the ceremonies.

Wearing rainbow leis, the two walked arm-in-arm down the sidewalk with the marriage certificate tucked in a manila envelope.

Braithwaite, a retired transit employee, said she felt married already, but went through the ceremony because it was important to Lawson.

___

IMMIGRATION IMPLICATIONS

SACRAMENTO, Calif. _ The chance to marry was especially meaningful for Jay and Juan Carlos Redden, who met seven years ago in Juan Carlos’ native Costa Rica.

The couple arrived shortly after the Sacramento clerk’s office opened Monday and said the brief ceremony will finally allow Jay Redden to petition immigration officials on behalf of his spouse, who traveled to the U.S. on a tourist visa in 2006, decided to stay with Redden and never left.

The two decided against marrying in 2008 out of fear that Juan Carlos might have been deported.

Now, they are planning a big celebration in November to mark the anniversary of Juan Carlos’ arrival in the U.S. and their life together.

Redden, 48, said he had some jitters heading into the ceremony but he wasn’t bothered by the same-sex marriage opponents outside the office.

___

Associated Press Writers Amy Taxin in Santa Ana, Calif.; Gosia Wozniacki in Fresno, Calif.; Laura Olson in Sacramento; Sarah Parvini in West Hollywood, Calif.; and Elliot Spagat in San Diego contributed to this report.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

