Germaine Greer ‘Should Be Punished’ For Saying Trans Women Not Women And Comments ‘Like Holocaust Denial’

Kellie Maloney – previously Frank – the ex UKIP candidate and boxing promoter, has said Germaine Greer “should be punished” and “dragged into court” for stating that “trans women” are not women. The transgendered star of the BBC’s new transgender sitcom compared the comments to holocaust denial. 

“I’m not saying people should not be allowed to go through that procedure [sex-change surgery]. What I’m saying is that it doesn’t make them a woman. That happens to be my opinion, not a prohibition.”

“If she had said that about another section of the community – Muslim community, black community, or gay community – she would have been dragged into court and punished for that,” she replied, adding: “She should be punished for that.”

Is trans woman a woman? Purely semantic. If you define by chromosomes, no. If by self-identification, yes. I call her "she" out of courtesy.

— Richard Dawkins (@RichardDawkins) October 26, 2015

A comparable comment about the black community would be to say “I don’t think white people who identify as black are black”, or, “race is biological reality, not a social construct.”

Greer doubled down on her position in a statement given to the VictoriaLIVE show on BBC Two. The veteran feminist said:

“… I do understand that some people are born intersex and they deserve support in coming to terms with their gender but it’s not the same thing. A man who gets his d*ck chopped off is actually inflicting an extraordinary act of violence on himself.”

Following this, transgendered actress Rebecca Root, star of the BBC’s ‘Boy Meets Girl,’ the world’s first sitcom focused on a transgender love story, waded in on Greer’s comments.

She said, “I’d like to see her say that to my face,” and that the comments are the “sort of thing I’d equate with the worst of the gutter press” before also comparing them to homophobia and racism and holocaust denial.

“People have opinions about race and holocaust denial, and those opinion are not given a platform,” she said.

 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

