GLAAD Funds Feature Documentary ‘TransMilitary’

The Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) has agreed to fund a new documentary about transgender people serving in the military, Deadline has revealed.

The project, titled Transmilitary, will follow the lives of four transgender troops serving in the U.S. military as well as their fight against President Donald Trump’s proposed plan to ban transgender people from active service.

“The powerful stories in ‘TransMilitary’ are vital to fighting against Trump’s proposed military ban and ensuring full equality for all service members, who wish to do nothing more than serve the country they love and keep their commitments to the military.”

The film, which will be released in 2018, is directed by filmmakers Gabriel Silverman and Fiona Dawson, who have previously directed the transgender-orientated, Emmy-nominated 2015 film Transgender, at War and in Love.

We are now on track to release our full feature length documentary, right around the time in early 2018 when Secretary of Defense Mattis must report to the President on if and how he will implement the new policy. But in truth, our film is not about this ban, nor about the President, nor the military. It’s about how we treat people differently based upon their gender. It’s about humanizing transgender people through the lens of the military.

In August, Mattis announced that he would preserve some pro-transgender policies introduced under Barack Obama until March when Pentagon deputies decide to make a final decision on the matter.

“Once the panel reports its recommendations and following my consultation with the secretary of Homeland Security, I will provide my advice to the president concerning the implementation of his policy direction,” Mattis said in the August 29 statement. “In the interim, current policy with respect to currently serving members will remain in place.”

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

