GLAAD's Fascist Crusade Targets Chelsea Handler

Trust me, I am no Chelsea Hander fan, but GLAAD’s fascist war against humor and Hollywood rolling over most every time they crybaby over something, is an appalling assault on free and artistic speech.


THR:


E! Entertainment talk show host and comedian, Chelsea Handler, may have a problem on her hands after making several jokes about Dancing with the Stars competitor Chaz Bono on her show, Chelsea Lately, Tuesday night. The Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) issued a request for Chandler’s apology on Wednesday.

“Last night’s episode of Chelsea Lately repeatedly made a mockery of Chaz Bono’s transgender identity when discussing the transgender advocate’s upcoming appearance on Dancing With the Stars,” writes GLAAD’s Associate Director of Entertainment Media, Matt Kane.

Kane points out that the “transphobic humor” started in Handler’s opening remarks and continued later in the show with her roundtable comedians, Fortune Feimster, Bill Bellamy, and Jo Koy.

“The Dancing with the Stars cast has been announced,” Handler joked in her opening remarks. “It includes Chaz Bono, otherwise known as Chastity Bono [laughs] before she got her penis [laughs].”




GLAAD asks that Handler issue an apology and invite Bono or another transgender celebrity to the show, so that her fans can have “the chance to get to know them beyond a few hurtful punch-lines.”

To quote a failed president, let me be clear: GLAAD has every right to do what they do and that’s to attack and label every “gay” joke as bullying or hate speech. This is a free country. But that doesn’t make them right. Furthermore, GLAAD is crossing a line, in my opinion, because they’re going well beyond responding to and/or criticizing the speech they oppose — they are trying to  STOP the speech they oppose.

Big Hollywood (and I personally) have spent thousands of words responding to comedians and so-called satirists like Jon Stewart, but that’s part of recognizing their impact on our political world and fighting back. That’s part of being in the arena and engaging in the debate.  

GLAAD, however, calls on things to be “removed,” approves of “re-education” tours, and demands apologies — which is just a passive-aggressive method of re-educating someone into speaking in the way GLAAD wants them to speak.  

Unfortunately, too much of our hyper-PC Hollywood plays along and gives these witch hunters the power and authority they crave.

Tracy Morgan went on that apology tour to save his career, which is no different than naming-names to save your career. What GLAAD is doing today is no different than the political blacklist of the 1950s.

Well, there is one difference. No one in Hollywood has the moral courage to openly fight back.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

