Hallmark is now offering transgender people cards to celebrate their transition

Greetings card giant Hallmark has begun a very special new line of cards.

The firm has begun selling cards aimed specifically at transgender people.

Hallmark now issues greetings cards to congratulate transgender people going through their transition.



Twitter user Renata Sancken found the cards in a local shop and posted it online.

The heart-warming surprise soon went viral, with thousands sharing the image.

Ms Sancken, who works as a teen services librarian, wrote in her post: “I’ve never seen Hallmark cards for gender transitioning before! 

“Capitalism triumphs over hate??”

I’ve never seen Hallmark cards for gender transitioning before! Capitalism triumphs over hate?? pic.twitter.com/GFn1EY6YoA
— Renata Sancken (@renatasnacks) May 11, 2017


— Renata Sancken (@renatasnacks) May 11, 2017




The card was listed under a section of shop labelled ‘Transgender/Transitioning’.

“You’re becomign who you’ve always been” the front of the card reads.

Adding on the inside: “How wonderful is that?”

RELATED: Inspiring trans man who overcame legal name change battle dies aged just 25.

The firm told PinkNews: “Hallmark makes cards for all kinds of relationships and situations, including many that might be defined as “non-traditional” – for example, heterosexual couples who are not married, those in mixed-race or interfaith relationships and blended families – so people in each of these situations can find cards that meet their needs. 

“It is our goal to be inclusive rather than exclusive so that our products appeal to the widest range of people who wish to communicate and connect with one another. 

“Not every card Hallmark offers will be right for every relationship, but we want every consumer to find one that is right.”

Even celebrities were moved by the addition to Hallmark’s collection, with Patricia Arquette responding to the post.

Awesome!
— Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) May 13, 2017


— Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) May 13, 2017




Wow if someone got me one of these cards I would cry forever
— Jameson Κεράσι (@jameybash) May 12, 2017


— Jameson Κεράσι (@jameybash) May 12, 2017




Awesome! I actually had to write and make one myself for a friend, like a little kid.
— Jayelle Has a Plan for That ????️‍???? (@GreenEyedLilo) May 11, 2017


— Jayelle Has a Plan for That ????️‍???? (@GreenEyedLilo) May 11, 2017




Hallmark themselves even responded: writing: “Love always wins”

Love always wins ❤❤
— Hallmark (@Hallmark) May 12, 2017


— Hallmark (@Hallmark) May 12, 2017




