Hillary and Chelsea Clinton have very different opinions on transgender identity

Hillary and her daughter Chelsea Clinton almost always see eye-to-eye on things, but in a recent interview, the mother-daughter team had a rather awkward difference of opinion over trans identities.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Hillary, 71, and Chelsea, 39, exchange laughs and even mirror one another’s body language.

But Chelsea visibly stiffened at she and her mother’s run-in on trans identities, something they sought to clarify they “don’t argue about”.

The Clintons sat down with journalists Decca Aitkenhead in New York, US, to promote the book they co-authored, The Book of Gutsy Women: Favourite Stories of Courage and Resilience.

One woman featured in the text is Danica Roem, the first openly trans person to be elected to a US state legislature. That queued Aitkenhead’s pertinent question: ‘If someone with a beard and a penis can ever be a woman’?

Chelsea replied with an emphatic and perky: “Ye-essss. Yes.”

But her mother looked “uneasy”.

“Errr,” Hillary hesitated.

“I’m just learning about this. It’s a very big generational discussion, because this is not something I grew up with or ever saw,” she explained.

“It’s going to take a lot more time and effort to understand what it means to be defining yourself differently.”

According to Aitkenhead’s account, she told Hillary that “a lot of British feminists of Hillary’s generation […] have a problem with the idea [of a] lesbian who doesn’t want to sleep with someone who has a penis is transphobic”.

Hillary nodded in agreement, while Chelsea “stiffens and stares” Aitkenhead, she claimed.

Renowned feminist of Hillary’s generation, Gloria Steinem, used to be trans-exclusionary. But she has since reevaluated her view point and supports inclusivity.

However, that’s when Chelsea began shooting a “furious stare” at Aitkenhead, who pointed it out to her.

Chelsea conversely cheered on the NHS’s move, explaining: “I am thrilled by the NHS’s decision. Because how can you treat someone if you don’t recognise who they feel and know in their core they are?

“And I strongly support children being able to play on the sports teams that match their own gender identity. I think we need to be doing everything we can to support kids in being whoever they know themselves to be and discovering who they are.”

As her daughter championed trans rights next to her, Hillary is said to have looked visibly conflicted.

The tension is reportedly thick in the room, but the pair reassured the reporter that the topic is not something they “argue” about.

However, as Aitkenhead inferred: “I get the impression they don’t like to present anything less than a united front to the world.”

Hillary’s apparent conflict comes after she reaffirmed her support for the trans community earlier this year on the  International Transgender Day of Visibility.

On this #TransDayOfVisibility, let's affirm that we see, stand by, and celebrate our transgender friends, family, and neighbors. pic.twitter.com/NfvXJbcAzw
— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) March 31, 2019

— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) March 31, 2019



