Host faces criticism after interview with Ghana’s ‘first’ openly transgender female

A host has been criticised for her “unprofessional” behaviour during an interview with Ghana’s ‘first’ transgender woman, posted on social media last Saturday (Jan 13).

Published by web publication Brutally Uncensored, the video clip appeared on Facebook page ‘Ghana Celebrities’ and sparked outrage among viewers after the interviewer claimed she was a “proper woman.”

Host, Celly, interviewed transgender guest Madina Broni at her home in Ghana about her gender confirmation journey, family and working life.

As the discussion got going, Celly said she was born a woman and hadn’t “done anything” to herself.

“What are you?” asked the host – to which Ms Broni responded: “I’m now a transgender, first I was Prince – I was a guy and now I’ve changed to be a lady.”

After the video emerged on Facebook, many viewers expressed their dismay over the way the host carried out the discussion.

“The interviewer is so unprofessional,” said one user Abigail Joseph.

Another, Doris Amoah-Djanie said; “Yeah she’s been too judgemental and self-righteous. Yes, we know you are a woman stop rubbing it in her face. After all it’s her decision.”



Transgender people continue to face widespread discrimination in Ghana. Human Rights Watch (HRW) published a detailed report on the matter last week and urged the nation to reform its colonial-era laws to better the lives of LGBT Ghanaians.

The international group interviewed 114 people across the north-west African nation and found many of the case studies felt the law contributed to a common climate of violence against LGBT people.



“LGBT Ghanaians should have the same protection from the government as everyone else,” said Wendy Isaack, LGBT rights researcher at HRW. “And the government should work to address the stigma that subjects people to violence in their own homes, the place where they should feel safest.”

Brutally Uncensored meanwhile notes on its website that it aims to have “the difficult conversations on the topics that matter.” It covers politics, science, relationships and culture and states that it’s based in London, UK.

During the video interview, Ms Broni said she had transitioned from male to female and underwent her surgery in Spain. The host said her guest was the first transgender woman in Ghana to speak out about her transition in public.

She added her family and friends are supportive of her and that she runs her own business as a stylist.

The host posted a follow-up video later on Brutally Uncensored’s Facebook page and said she was shocked to hear that Ms Broni’s friends and family had supported her throughout her transition.

“It’s as if they didn’t see anything wrong with her, not that I’m saying there’s anything wrong with that,” the host said. She adds that as a Ghanaian, she know’s how people react to LGBT people in the country.

The publication did not immediately respond to requests for comment from PinkNews.

