Incredible new children’s book tells story of transgender boy

GLAAD has published a children’s book featuring the journey of a transgender boy.

The LGBT+ media non-profit released Jack (Not Jackie), written by Erica Silverman and illustrated by Holly Hatam.

Released via Amazon and booksellers on Tuesday, the book was published as part of a partnership between GLAAD and Bonnier Publishing US “aimed at elevating positive LGBTQ representation in children’s literature.”

The book, intended for children aged between four and eight, tells the story of Susan, who finds out her younger sister Jackie would rather be known as Jack and identifies as a boy.

GLAAD explained that the book “is a conversation starter about gender identity and gender expression, but more importantly it is a story about love between siblings and wholeheartedly accepting people for who they are.”

Nick Adams, Director of Transgender Media and Representation at GLAAD, said: “Today children of all ages are finding support and understanding from parents and caregivers when they express that their gender identity or gender expression doesn’t match the sex recorded on their birth certificate.

“The social transition portrayed in this book is simply and refreshingly a family listening to their child and following his lead as he tells them what name and pronoun he wants to use and how he wants to dress.”

A blurb explained: “In this heartwarming picture book, a big sister realises that her little sister, Jackie, doesn’t like dresses or fairies-she likes ties and bugs! Will she and her family be able to accept that Jackie identifies more as ‘Jack?’



“Susan thinks her little sister Jackie has the best giggle! She can’t wait for Jackie to get older so they can do all sorts of things like play forest fairies and be explorers together.



“But as Jackie grows, she doesn’t want to play those games. She wants to play with mud and be a super bug! Jackie also doesn’t like dresses or her long hair, and she would rather be called Jack.

“Readers will love this sweet story about change and acceptance.”

GLAAD previously published a gay royal love story as part of the partnership, to coincide with the wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle.

Prince & Knight, a picture book by Daniel Haack with illustrations by Stevie Lewis, tells the story of a knight looking for a bride. Unable to find what he’s looking for in a princess, a series of events brings him to meet a brave knight, with whom he falls in love and eventually marries.

Publisher Sonali Fry said: “Children need to identify with the characters they’re reading about. The importance of children recognising themselves, their family, and their friends in media cannot be overstated. We strive to create stories that not only empower, but ensure that no child feels invisible.”

