J.K. Rowling Blasts Woke Celebs for Supporting Trans Kids Charity After Ties to Pedophilia Network Revealed

Woke celebrities and corporations will be “panicking” over their support of a controversial children’s transgender charity that has been revealed to have connections to advocates of paedophilia, Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling has predicted.

The charity, Mermaids, a member of Consortium which describes itself as “a safe place for transgender, non-binary and gender-diverse young people”, has drawn support from the likes of Prince Harry, London Mayor Sadiq Khan, transgender model and activist Munroe Bergdof, and even Harry Potter actress Emma Watson. It has also received funding from the government as well as the National Lottery.

Speaking out against the support for the trans children organisation on social media, J.K. Rowling said: “I don’t doubt that there are some panicky phone calls being placed to PR people by certain corporations and celebrities right now, but as they remain completely insulated from the severe harm they’ve enabled, my sympathy can be measured in gnats’ thimbles.”

Wrong Side of History: J.K. Rowling Blasts Pro-Trans Antifa After Feminist Attacked at Suffragette Statuehttps://t.co/Cq4yax1mM3

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 17, 2022

This week the Times of London revealed that in 2011, Dr Jacob Breslow, who was then a graduate student studying gender research at the London School of Economics, gave a speech at an event hosted by the B4U-ACT organisation, which claims to support “understanding about people in our communities with an attraction to children or adolescents, and to support them living in truth and dignity.”

According to the British broadsheet of record, the presentation from Dr Breslow focussed on criticising how paedophiles are viewed in society, and opted to use the newspeak “minor attracted persons” rather than paedophile.

Following the report, Breslow resigned from his trustee position at Mermaids, which he reportedly was elevated to in July of this year.

“Once notified we took swift and decisive action to investigate. Dr Breslow tendered his notice on the same day. “We will be reviewing our processes and procedures in light of this event to make them even more robust. Safeguarding is of the utmost importance to Mermaids and the safety of the young people we support is our highest priority.”

If I'd been arguing for the destigmatisation of paedophilia ten years ago, had never recanted those views and then wheedled my way onto the board of a charity for vulnerable kids, then damn right I should be fired. https://t.co/eiFhQDFR60

— J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) October 4, 2022

However, this was not sufficient for J.K. Rowling who said: “When you appoint a trustee to a children’s charity, you do due diligence. A simple google search would have enabled Mermaids to read Breslow’s own words. Either they did literally no checking, or they were fine with his views. Either way, it’s a catastrophic safeguarding failure.”

Mermaids has drawn generated coverage in Britain in recent weeks after it launched what is believed to be the first instance of one charity suing to have the charitable status revoked from another charity in the UK. The pro-transgenderism organisation argued before the charity commission that the LGB Alliance, which seeks to protect rights of homosexual men and women from the encroachment of transgenderism, should have its status as a charity removed for allegedly promoting transphobia.

Lesbians Will Not Be 'Erased' by 'Men With Penises', LGB Alliance Co-Founder Tells Court https://t.co/gjjCMYC9ff

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 18, 2022

Follow Kurt Zindulka on Twitter here @KurtZindulka

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

