Jay-Z reached out to try and educate rapper who made vile comments about Dwyane Wade’s transgender daughter

Jay-Z reportedly attempted to reach out to the rapper Boosie Badazz after he sparked anger with horrifying remarks about the genitals of the 12-year-old Zaya Wade.

The rapper, real name Torrence Hatch Jr, has refused to issue an apology for his repeated rants about Zaya Wade, the daughter of NBA star Dwyane Wade and the actress Gabrielle Union.

He brought up the subject once again during an interview with Power 105 radio show The Breakfast Club, claiming to have lost “a lot of sponsors and s**t.”

However, he insisted he does not regret his remarks, adding: “It’s kind of f**king with my money, but I meant everything I said, and I would say it again.”

Despite his opinion about Wade and Union’s inclusive parenting, Hatch admitted that he smokes weed in front of his own children, adding: “I’ve been smoking weed since I got them in the hospital, since they were one day old they smelt it. But I said what I said, and I really meant it. I really did.

“Who am I to judge, but I judge, and that’s how I feel about the situation, strongly.”

Hatch also insisted that his anti-transgender views do not make him homophobic, insisting: “Let me make this clear, I’ve got nothing against no gay people. I’ve got gay people in my family, my tour manager’s gay. They flipped it on me, you know what they do to my words.”

Asked if he would apologise to Wade , he said: “Nah, they already tried to do that.

“They were trying to hook up some s**t with a meeting with Jay-Z. They say, Jay-Z, we’re gonna get him on the phone and all that s**t, I need to apologise to save this, and save that that I got coming up.”

“I’m like, tell Jay-Z I don’t wanna talk. I’m not apologising for s**t. I don’t give a f**k if Jesus calling to get me to apologise. I said what I said, man. I felt that was right. I won’t apologise.”

Jay-Z is known for his strong support for the LGBT+ community – even helping his mother come out publicly via music in 2016.

