Jeffrey Tambor addresses transgender sexual misconduct claims on Transparent: ‘I’m sorry it ended the way it did’

Jeffrey Tambor has addressed his alleged sexual misconduct on the set of Transparent, admitting that he’s “sorry it ended the way it did.”

Tambor, a 75-year-old cis man, played the lead role in the award-winning comedy about a trans woman who comes out to her family late in life.

Transparent was sadly scrapped in 2017 after he was accused of sexually harassing his co-star and personal assistant, both of whom are transgender.

Although Tambor admitted to having anger issues he adamantly denied reports that he was “sexually aggressive.”

He also disputed the claim that he rubbed his genitals against trans actor Tracy Lysette while telling her: “My god, Trace, I want to attack you sexually.”

He’s now revisited the issue on Gilbert Gottfrien’s Amazing Colossal Show, saying that he in “no way ever, ever intended to make anyone feel uncomfortable”.

“So, regarding how I left the show, I just want to make it really, really clear for your listeners out there that I’m not this guy,” he said on air.

“This cast [of Transparent] was amazing… it was sort of raucous, it was wonderful, irreverent, loving and personal, and we told personal stories … and I got to play Maura and it was vital for the [LGBT+] community.”

He repeated that he “never, ever, intended” to cause any hurt because “It’s just not who I am.”



“I have profoundly apologised and I apologise now if I made anyone feel vulnerable, and I’m sorry it ended the way it did,” he concluded.

Tambor’s admission was reminiscent of his begrudging ‘non-apology’ in 2017. “I am deeply sorry for any action that was ever misinterpreted by anyone as being sexually aggressive or if I ever offended or hurt anyone,” he said at the time.

His sincerity was further cast into doubt as he used the same statement to deny being “a predator”.

Despite the shocking allegations, Tambor was defended by several people in the entertainment industry and kept his job on Netflix’s Arrested Development.

The actor says that to this day he is “so proud” of his role on the show and for its impact on the LGBT+ community, saying that it was a “highlight of his life”.

