Jeremy Corbyn pays respects on Transgender Day of Remembrance

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is among political leaders to have marked the Transgender Day of Remembrance, in honour of the 271 trans people who have been murdered this year.

Vigils are taking place across the UK and world today for TDoR, to raise awareness of the transphobic violence that has claimed the lives of hundreds.

Jeremy Corbyn, Leader of the Labour Party, said: “I send my good wishes to all those campaigning for the rights and equality of transgender people on Transgender Remembrance Day.

“It is not right that any person, anywhere, should face suffering or persecution because of their gender.

“We honour the courage transgender people have shown and continue to show in the face of abuse and discrimination.

“We remember those who have tragically lost their lives and offer our condolences on this day to their loved ones.

“And in remembering them we offer our solidarity to transgender people and others fighting for equality everywhere.”

Conservative Secretary of State for Education and Minister for Women and Equalities Nicky Morgan is flying the transgender flag from the Department of Education to mark the day.

She said: “I’m proud that for the first time a government department is flying the transgender flag – a mark of respect for all transgender people who have suffered discrimination and lost their lives due to hatred, violence, and prejudice.”

“We have come a long way when it comes to raising awareness and increasing support for transgender individuals. But we must continue to make further progress and ensure all members of our society can live their lives free from fear, and able to fulfil their potential.”

Tim Farron, Leader of the Liberal Democrats, said: “Too many transgender lives have been lost to hate and prejudice around the world.

“Today, on Transgender Day of Remembrance, we reflect on that and remember those killed and focus on what steps we can take, both in the UK and internationally, to halt this tragic and unnecessary loss of life.

“I’m proud that Liberal Democrats have led and continue to lead the way on trans equality, opposing the spousal veto and continuing to campaign to introduce X Gender markers on passports.”

Natalie Bennett, Leader of the Green Party, said: “Today is a day to remember, mourn and honour the 271 trans persons murdered in the past year.

“It is an absolute outrage that so many transgender people across the world have been killed this year simply for being who they are.

“The violence against transgender people remains under-reported and under-acknowledged and we must redouble our efforts for justice and equality for the trans community.

“It is tragic that this issue should be highlighted today by the death of Vicky Thompson, a young transgender woman who was sent to a male prison.

“That occurred even after the justice system acknowledged recently the grave error of sending Tara Hudson to a male prison, after a public outcry at which the Green Party was at the forefront.”

It is the first time the day, which was set up in 1999, has attracted such vocal support from UK party leaders.

