Kate Winslet, Kenneth Branagh Receive Royal Honors

By JILL LAWLESSAssociated PressLONDONKate Winslet has been honored by Queen Elizabeth II for her titanic contribution to the arts.

Winslet said the honor made her “very proud to be a Brit.”

Actor and director Kenneth Branagh was made a knight and will be known as Sir Kenneth. A respected Shakespearean actor whose films as a director range from “Henry V” and “Hamlet” to the comic-book fantasy “Thor,” Branagh said he felt “humble, elated, and incredibly lucky” to get the honor. It puts him in a pantheon of theatrical knights alongside the late Sir Laurence Olivier, whom Branagh played in “My Life With Marilyn.”

Most go to people who are not in the limelight, for services to their community or industry, but they also reward a sprinkling of famous faces.

Songwriter and philanthropist Richard Stilgoe, who wrote lyrics for Andrew Lloyd Webber’s “Cats,” “Starlight Express” and “The Phantom Of The Opera,” was awarded a knighthood.

Those becoming dames _ the female equivalent of a knight _ include Iraqi-born architect Zaha Hadid, who designed the Aquatic Center for the 2012 London Olympics, and Labour Party politician Tessa Jowell, who was Olympics minister until 2010.

Musician Gary Barlow, who organized a Diamond Jubilee concert for the queen this month featuring Paul McCartney, Stevie Wonder and Elton John, was named an Officer of the Order of the British Empire, or OBE, for his services to entertainment and to charity.

In descending order, the honors are knighthoods, CBE, OBE and MBE _ Member of the Order of the British Empire. Knights are addressed as “sir” or “dame.” Recipients of the other honors have no title but can put the letters after their names.

Choirmaster Gareth Malone, who inspired thousands to sing with TV shows such as “The Choir” and assembled the best-selling Military Wives singing group, was awarded an OBE, as was actress and 1970s heartthrob Jenny Agutter.

Actress and campaigner April Ashley, one of the first Britons to undergo sex-change surgery, was awarded an OBE “for services to transgender equality.”

Also receiving an OBE was Jimmy Carlson, a former soldier who spent 23 years sleeping on the streets before becoming an advocate for the homeless. The same honor went to Armando Iannucci, the writer and producer behind expletive-laden British political satire “The Thick of It” and White House comedy “Veep.”

Among the hundreds of others honored was Margaret Jackson, who received an MBE “for services to netball” and Kerry Michael and Michelle Michael, awarded the same honor “for services to the restoration of Weston Super Mare’s pier.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

