Kerry Katona says she’d be ‘devastated’ if her son was transgender but ‘of course’ she’d stand by him

Kerry Katona has declared that she would be “devastated” if one of her children came out as transgender, but said she’d support them nonetheless.

Although no one asked for it, the former Atomic Kitten gladly offered her take on the news that Stereophonics frontman Kelly Jones’ teenage son has come out as transgender.

Writing in her New! magazine column, Katona reflected on how she would “mourn” if one of her children did the same.

”It’s an incredibly brave thing to talk about, especially publicly, and it got me thinking about what I’d do if one of my kids wanted to change their gender,” she said.

“Of course, I’d be supportive — I can’t bear the thought of them being unhappy in the bodies they’re in… In all honesty, if Max decided to [come out as] a girl I’d be devastated, just because he’s my only boy, but of course I’d stand by him.

“It’s like if my Molly decided to [come out as] Michael — it’d be so hard to mourn the child you know but, deep down, all that matters is their happiness. And I wish Kelly’s boy Colby all the best.”

Katona is mother to Molly, 18, and Lilly-Sue, 17, with her first husband Brian McFadden, Heidi, 13, and Max, 12, with her second spouse Mark Croft, and six-year-old DJ with her late third husband George Kay.

She continued with her well-meant but misguided commentary on trans issues by considering that there is little difference between her own cosmetic surgeries and a trans person undergoing gender affirming surgery.

“If I can get my boobs and belly done because I’m not happy with myself, then why can’t they change their sexual organs?!” she wrote.

While it’s not exactly a refreshing take, it’s certainly a positive change from her previous comments on trans and non-binary people.

Last year she caused a stir for supporting “cheeky” Piers Morgan as he dismissed Sam Smith‘s gender identity.

“Listen, I love Sam but biologically the singer’s a male,” Katona said. “There’s still a penis there! It’s science!”

Perhaps she’s had a change of heart.

