Kids who rejected their transgender mother to get nothing after she wins lottery

A transgender woman who won £4 million from the National Lottery has said her children will receive nothing after they rejected her for transitioning.

Melissa Ede, a 57-year-old taxi driver who has thousands of followers on YouTube and Twitter, said it was “just unbelievable” to win the jackpot.

“This is something that only ever happens to other people,” the elated winner told reporters.

The victory comes after her grown-up children turned their backs on her because she is transgender.

Melissa has told her four adult kids — aged 19, 29, 30 and 39 — not to expect a penny of her winnings after they disowned her 12 years ago.

“I know we should all love our children unconditionally but they cut me out of their lives,” she told Good Morning Britain. 

“They weren’t there during my hardest times and rejected me. I still love them but I don’t want false love off them because I’ve got money now.

“The people who have stood by me through thick and thin — it’s payback time for them.”

The taxi driver completed her transition in 2011, but was not supported by close relatives.



She revealed: “My mum and dad both died last year but hadn’t spoken to me since I became Melissa.

“My kids also disowned me and changed their surnames so as not to be associated with me.

“There should be no stigma. Things go wrong in people’s lives, their make-up and their chromosomes.

“Everybody’s human and it’s about time people realise that.”

The win came about thanks to purchasing a £10 scratch card at a petrol station on her way to work, and she bought it with the change from her purchase.

Ede said she ran back into the garage after she found out about the win, shouting: “You’ve just given me £4 million – 2018 is going to be the best year ever!”

The taxi driver has big plans for her new wealth, including marrying her girlfriend.

After years of living in shared accommodation, she intends to buy her own home and splash out on a luxury car.

She is also mooting a full facelift, botox and having work on her teeth, which had been damaged after being attacked in the past.

Ede, a self-professed trans activist, also wanted to help others who, like her, have struggled with their gender.

“The transgender fight to where I am now has been a very difficult path,” she said.

“I received my operation almost seven years ago, and I am really proud of who I am today.

“I now want to help others in similar situations, and believe my autobiography will do just this.”

The newly minted multi-millionaire has also attracted attention for her “body confidence” YouTube videos, in which she dances, almost naked, with ketchup, milk and mayonnaise bottles attached to her breasts.

