Lawyer who carries ‘anti-transgender gun’ is backing Trump despite sex abuse claims

An anti-LGBT activist who carries a handgun to the bathroom to ward off transgender women is not fussed about allegations that Donald Trump sexually assaulted women.

A number of women have come forward to allege that Mr Trump abused them and grabbed them inappropriately, after a leaked tape featured the Republican Presidential nominee bragging about how he is able to grab women “by the pussy” without consequence because of his celebrity status.

You might think that would give cause to concern to Anita Staver of the Liberty Counsel, who claimed to be very very worried about the threat of sexual assault earlier this year.

Ms Staver, the head of the law firm that represented homophobic Kentucky clerk Kim Davis, claimed earlier this year that she takes a Glock handgun into the women’s toilets, just in case there are any transgender women in there who might rape her.

She insisted at the time: “I’m taking a Glock .45 to the ladies room. It identifies as my bodyguard. I want protection from the perverts who will use the law to gain access to women.”

However, given her strong stance of sexual assault at the time, we were very surprised to see Ms Staver’s name on an email aiming to raise money for evangelicals trying to help elect Mr Trump.

Ms Staver wrote: “Whether Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton are kind or rude, decent or vulgar, charitable or greedy, and healthy or weak, will never matter as much as their Supreme Court nominations.

“The next president will select one, and possibly three, justices during the next term, and this one act will transform the Court for the next 30 years or more.”

“In the past, the Court has decided many crucial cases by a 5-4 vote. For example, the outcome was determined by one vote in… Obergefell v. Hodges, [which established] a state cannot refuse to issue a marriage license to two people of the same sex or recognise such unions licensed in other states.

“Many other important issues that impact Americans — including religious freedom, self-defense, marriage, bathroom privacy, equal access for Bible clubs, forced funding of abortion, ObamaCare exemptions, school vouchers, online child pornography, and the public acknowledgement of God — all hang by one vote.”

Ms Staver continued: “During the next four years, America could be transformed into a safe and prosperous home for future generations. Or our precious liberties could be decimated by a single black-robed individual with the stroke of a pen.”

Referring to Mr Trump, who has pledged to appoint ultra-conservative Supreme Court justices, she affirmed: “We have a supreme choice to make. We must support the candidate who will make the best nominations to the Supreme Court.

“Liberty Counsel Action is in the final stages of our ‘Operation Save America’ plan to utilise our vast network of citizens and churches to inform and equip people of faith as they go to the polls.”

The group’s election literature clearly favours Mr Trump for evangelicals:


