Leftie Journo Says She’s Not A Woman… Wins Woman’s Award

A “non-binary” transgendered Guardian columnist has been honoured with a “Woman of the Future” award. She said she was “surprised” because she doesn’t “identify” as a woman, but will accept the award regardless of the flagrant ‘mis-gendering’.

https://twitter.com/DrJackMonroe/status/659482674394963971

She accepted the Aviva Women Of The Future award at a ceremony on Tuesday, for her “work in the media” – for doing things like accusing David Cameron of using “stories about his dead son” Ivan to legitimise privatisation of the NHS.

URGENT: LEGAL WARNING: Jack Monroe. Jack Monroe has requested that you do not publish her birth name (Melissa) in the future.

— Media Guido (@MediaGuido) October 14, 2015

Monroe had been living as a lesbian for many years, with no complaints of crippling “gender dyisphoria.” However, on National Coming Out Day, she made sure she remains at the “heroic” cutting edge of LGBTQQI+ identity politics, declaring herself transgendered.

That’s not to mean she is now a man, however. Monroe claims to have a “non-binary identity”, which apparently means she is not exclusively masculine or feminine, but somewhere in the middle of her own choosing. Jack likes to be referred to as “they”.

“Yes I am transgender. Not all trans people transition from one binary gender to another,” she tweeted on the day she “came out”.

In her coming out blog post, Monroe refers to wearing a chest binder to conceal her breasts, and says she has been “researching a double mastectomy,” to get rid of her self-declared large chest.

https://twitter.com/DrJackMonroe/status/659032404787634176

The number of out lesbians has indeed been falling, as more and more are “diagnosed” as transgendered in accordance with the social trends of the day. “Butch lesbians are paying a price for bending gender rules,” wrote lesbian feminist activist Julie Bindel in The Guardian earlier this year.

Julie was “no-platformed” for her views on transgenderism almost a decade before the recent storm caused by Germaine Greer, who believes that transgendered women are not women.

And so the gender wars continue…

https://twitter.com/AprilTrubody/status/659017359106158593

Monroe uses the prefix “Dr” (doctor) in her Twitter bio, despite only having an honorary degree from the University of Essex. It is not known if she now wants the institution to be renamed the “university of Esgender.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

