Lib Dems to Impose Gender-Neutral Schools, Gender X on Passports, Right to ‘Self-Identify’

The Liberal Democrats want to make it legal to change gender at will and force all schools to introduce gender-neutral uniforms.

In 2016, the Conservative government ordered a review of the law to investigate whether the country should make it easier to receive a Gender Recognition Certificate, for example by simply “self-identifying” as another gender without any requirement to prove a diagnosis of gender dysphoria or live long-term as another gender.

Introduce an ‘X’ gender option on passports and extend equality law to cover gender identity and expression, ensuring a #BrighterFuture for everyone. #GenderRecognition #GE2019 @LibDems https://t.co/J4XWaoFlfw

— Jo Swinson (@joswinson) December 4, 2019

“We will completely reform of the Gender Recognition Act, removing the requirement for medical reports, scrap the fee, and recognise non-binary gender identities,” Ms Swinson declared.

The Liberal Democrats have also promised to “introduce an ‘X’ gender option on passports and extend equality law to cover gender identity and expression.”

This would mean either letting boys wear skirts — as Wales recently allowed — or forcing boys’ uniforms on girls by banning skirts altogether, as a number of British schools have done in recent years.

Ad Featuring Mother with a Baby Banned for Perpetuating ‘Harmful Gender Stereotypes’ https://t.co/1aZwROa3WD

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) August 16, 2019

The rabidly anti-Brexit party has been dropping in the polls, with even Remain voters turned off by Swinson’s pledge to cancel Brexit altogether without a second referendum.

Campaigners have reportedly backed off of that pledge, with Guido Fawkes reporting that the party has stripped Swinson from their promotional material after it was found that people like her less the more they see of her.

However, in the event of a hung parliament, Labour may engage in some horse-trading with minor left-wing parties like the Liberal Democrats, and would likely agree to incorporate such policies into their government programme as the price of a forming a coalition government or a minority government supported by third parties on a confidence-and-supply basis.

Politician Pushing ‘Gender Neutral’ Toilets Charged with Child Sex Crimes https://t.co/HURi5d3SDC

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 18, 2019

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

