Lib Dem leader Sir Vince Cable: Donald Trump’s transgender ban should shake us out of complacency

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Vince Cable has hit out at Donald Trump’s announcement that he will ban openly transgender people from serving in the US military.

Writing exclusively in PinkNews to mark the 50th anniversary of the partial decriminalisation of homosexuality in England and Wales, Sir Vince said that President Trump’s announcement reminds us that the battle for LGBT+ rights is far from over.

“It is half a century since homosexuality was decriminalised, at least in part”, said Sir Vince.



“And it is tempting to look at it in that light, an historical event, and celebrate how much more liberal society has become.

“But President Trump’s re-introduction of the ban on transgender people in the US military this week should shake us out of any such complacency

“The battle for LGBT+ rights is a battle that is far from won.”

He added: “The 1967 Act should not be seen so much as the culmination of a long campaign as an important step on a long road.

“The Trump decision is far from the most egregious example around the world of how people can be treated if they don’t fit into the idea of other peoples’ norms.”

Trump’s shock announcement to reverse President Barack Obama’s earlier request to allow transgender people to openly serve has sparked a massive response across the world, including from the American Civil Liberties Union, who pledged to challenge the decision.

It quickly emerged that the US Veterans Affairs Secretary was not aware of Trump’s announcement before it was made.



The first out transgender US soldier Shane Ortega slammed Trump, calling out the President’s “war-dodging” ways.



Trump is a man who is literally a war-dodger, who comes from a life of privilege and silver spoon, who has no connection to reality whatsoever, and I don’t know how much more the American public needs to see that,” said the retired army sergeant.

Celebrities James Corden, JK Rowling and trans star Caitlyn Jenner have also called out the President.

And a transgender Navy Seal later challenged President Trump to tell her that she’s “not worthy” to her face after he banned trans people from serving in the military.

