Loudoun County School Board Cuts Off Public Comments, Sics Police as Critical Race Theory Criticisms Grow

The Loudoun County, Virginia, school board cut off a comment period and sicced police on residents Tuesday after they criticized leaders over transgender and race policies.

After attendees cheered the remarks of former state Sen. Dick Black (R), the board ordered the room cleared then fled:

Update: former VA state senator Dick Black spoke out against critical race theory in the board meeting and crowd couldn’t stay silent. The Loudoun Co school board said if there were eruptions like this they’d end public comment pic.twitter.com/dx0oMAy1Fu

— Gabriella Borter (@gabriellaborter) June 22, 2021

“You’re done!” one woman shouted, alluding to a recall campaign currently underway. Others broke out into singing the National Anthem as the chaos grew:

2/3 pic.twitter.com/lVZlxLU22k

— Drew Wilder (@DrewWilderTV) June 22, 2021

A sheriff’s deputy then took the microphone to declare it an “unlawful assembly” and told everyone to get out or be subject to arrest for “trespassing.” When at least one man refused to leave, he was arrested, according to video posted by the news site:



Loudoun Now said two attendees were injured and required medical attention. Another man was arrested, another video showed.

Loudoun Now reported after the room was emptied, the board reconvened in closed session, unfettered by the opinions of taxpayers.

“Loudoun County Schools continues to show an unabashed hostility to the First Amendment rights of student, parents, and teachers with whom they disagree,” Ian Prior, executive director of Fight for Schools, told Breitbart News.

“It’s time for school boards across America to stop being held captive by activists and special interests and give parents a seat at the table to help guide the education that they pay for their children to receive.”

“We will not back down from fighting for the rights of our students and continuing our focus on equity,” Sheridan told NBC 4.

She demanded an end to “politically motivated antics.”

Kyle Olson is a reporter for Breitbart News. He is also host of “The Kyle Olson Show,” syndicated on Michigan radio stations on Saturdays–download full podcast episodes. Follow him on Parler.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

