L’Oréal Fires First Transgendered ‘Diversity’ Model for Attacking ‘Violent’ White ‘Race’

The transgendered star of L’Oréal Paris UK’s new “diversity” campaign has been sacked for attacking “all white people” and claiming “their race is the most violent and oppressive force of nature on Earth”.

Soon after, however, the “transgender woman of colour” violated the brand’s diversity standards, leading to the sack and the loss of a lucrative deal.

L’Oréal champions diversity. Comments by Munroe Bergdorf are at odds with our values and so we have decided to end our partnership with her.

— L'Oréal Paris UK (@LOrealParisUK) September 1, 2017

In a lengthy Facebook post, the model had ranted: “Honestly I don’t have energy to talk about the racial violence of white people any more. Yes ALL white people.”

Adding: “Come see me when you realise that racism isn’t learned, it’s inherited and consciously or unconsciously passed down through privilege.

“Until then stay acting shocked about how the world continues to stay f*cked at the hands of your ancestors and your heads that remain buried in the sand with hands over your ears.”

So proud to announce that I am now part of L’Oréal’s True Match #YoursTruly campaign that stands for diversity. In celebration of the one year anniversary, L’Oréal are launching 5 new shades with 5 new faces…Including myself, @neelamkg, @lizlizlive, @breenylee and @mercedesfbenson. Let’s make diversity the norm within the beauty world, with products to fit everyone, no matter what your skin tone. My True Match foundation shade is 8.5W. Because we are ALL worth it. #AllWorthIt #YoursTruly @lorealmakeup

A post shared by Munroe Bergdorf (@munroebergdorf) on Aug 27, 2017 at 3:00am PDT

In a later post defending the comments, they added: “The irony of all this is that L’Oréal Paris invited me to be part of a beauty campaign that ‘stands for diversity’.”

They also demanded L’Oréal Paris is boycotted, concluding: “I stand for tolerance and acceptance – but neither can be achieved if we are unwilling to discuss WHY intolerance and hate exist in the first place.”

“The L’Oréal Paris True Match campaign is a representation of these values and we are proud of the diversity of the Ambassadors who represent this campaign,” the company said in a statement.

Continuing: “We believe that the recent comments by Munroe Bergdorf are at odds with those values, and as such we have taken the decision to end the partnership with her.

“L’Oréal remains committed to celebrating diversity and breaking down barriers in beauty.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

