Match.com Provides over Two Dozen Gender Options, Including ‘Polygender,’ ‘Neutrois,’ ‘Pangender’

The popular online dating website Match.com lists over two dozen gender options, including “polygender,” “gender questioning,” “pangender,” and “neutrois.”

Members of the radical left continue to push radical gender ideology into the mainstream, including into children’s classrooms. Some states, such as Florida, have taken action to eradicate the woke indoctrination of children. The Parental Rights in Education law went into effect in the Sunshine State on Friday, barring classroom discussions on sexual orientation and gender identity with children in kindergarten through third grade. Despite clamoring from the left, most voters support anti-groomer laws in their states.

“Which best describes you?” the online dating site reads, listing a host of options outside of man and woman. It contains well-known alternate options, such as “agender” — used to describe someone who does not have a gender — “transgender,” “trans woman,” “trans man,” “non-binary,” and “intersex,” but it also includes less commonly known options. 

For instance, it includes the choice “neutrois,” which Fort Lewis College defines as a “non-binary gender identity which is considered to be a neutral or null gender” and “has considerable overlap with agender.” “Demiman” and “demiwoman” are both on the list, used to describe someone who partially identifies as either man or woman. “Polygender” — someone who identifies as multiple genders — is on the list, as is “pangender” — described as a “multigender non-binary gender identity which refers to a vast and diverse multiplicity of genders in the same individual that can extend infinitely.”

https://t.co/60TWvpLOUi has 31 listed gender options pic.twitter.com/WcN1NtnSfL

— Libs of TikTok (@libsoftiktok) July 4, 2022

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made waves last year after extending the traditional LGBT abbreviation by using “2SLGBTQQIA+.” His version of the acronym included “two-spirit,” “queer,” “questioning,” “intersex” and “asexual,” in addition to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender:

People across the country are lighting candles to honour Indigenous women, girls, and 2SLGBTQQIA+ people who are missing or have been murdered. We must continue to work together, raise awareness, and advocate to end this ongoing national tragedy. #SistersInSpirit pic.twitter.com/cUUmff1ZOd

— Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) October 5, 2021

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

