Mum strangled and slammed into door by ex because she stood up for trans son

A woman was assaulted because she defended her trans son from continual misgendering by her ex-boyfriend.

According to LeicestershireLive, the victim, from Leicestershire, was in a relationship with Steven Corkett, 41, until January 2022.

Prosecuting, Nicola Patten told Leicester Crown Court, reports LeicestershireLive: “Her son is transgender and this was an issue with the defendant and he didn’t seem to accept it and used the wrong pronouns repeatedly. In 2021 he lost his job and she supported him.

“In Christmas 2021 he began to drink and his behaviour began to deteriorate. The relationship ended in January 2022.”

The court heard that Corkett had continued to text the victim after their breakup and had described her trans son as a “dog”, prompting her to visit him at a garage where he was living in Great Glen, Leicestershire, on 17 June.

The pair had a short conversation, but when the victim went to leave, Corkett grabbed her by the throat and began to strangle her.

“She went to his property and went inside for a short period of time,” said Patten.

“As she left, he put both hands around her neck, squeezing tightly.

“His face was in her face and he was gritting his teeth, saying, ‘It’s all your fault’. He accused her of sleeping with one of his friends. She felt she was lifted up off the floor.

“He slammed her against a metal shutter and slapped her cheek. She was seeing colours. Afterwards, he said, ‘This is why you shouldn’t push me’.”

When Corkett was arrested, he initially insisted that the victim was “crazy”, that she had been “coming for him”. However he later pleaded guilty to strangling her.

Sentencing Corkett to a year in prison, recorder Adrian Reynolds said: “She felt close to passing out.

“The feeling of helplessness and feeling she was at risk of being strangled to death must have been all too apparent.

“This is so serious only immediate custody is appropriate.”

Corkett has also been banned from contacting the victim for five years.

