NBC Explains ‘Cisgender’: ‘Doctor Guessed Your Gender Correctly’ When You Were Born

A study of the 2010 census shows the population of transgender people amounts to one of every 2,400 Americans, or 0.03 percent of the adult population.



In the video, Tobia instructs about the term “cisgender,” stating that if you “don’t know what the word cisgender means that means you probably are cisgender.”

“If you’re cisgender, it means that you identify on the same side of the sex you were assigned at birth,” Tobia teaches.

“The thing about cisgender people is that a lot of y’all like to act like you’re the normal ones, but I’ve got news for you there’s no such thing as a normal gender,” Tobia asserts. “Cisgender people just got lucky. The doctor guessed your gender correctly when you were a baby.”

A doctor takes one look at us and makes a guess about what our gender identity will be: “Well, I see a penis, so I think that this baby will grow up to be a man. Did I get it right?” If you’re cisgender it means that the doctor guessed your gender identity correctly at birth, and that you actually like the letter that the doctor put on your birth certificate when you were born.

For the 0.03 percent of the adult population, however, who identify as transgendered, Tobia says the doctor was wrong (“Dang it, I knew I should’ve guessed genderqueer”).

During his final year in office, President Barack Obama is using the issue of transgendered bathrooms to promote the transgender ideology, which says government should require Americans to endorse people’s declarations about their own sex or “gender fluidity,” regardless of biology. In August, the president’s deputies inserted a rule into the Federal Register that prohibits all federal properties and facilities from operating single-sex bathrooms.

Similarly, in May, the Obama administration issued a directive that all public schools must allow gender-confused students to use the bathrooms and locker rooms according to their preferred “gender identity” at any given time. As is often the case with Obama’s decrees, the directive is backed by threats to cut federal funding designated for school districts that oppose the policy.

Multiple polls show that Obama’s transgender policy is very unpopular.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

