New York Times Smears Women as Just ‘Menstruators’

The New York Times has started describing women as “menstruators,” implementing the radical demand by male-dominated transgender activists who are trying to cut out the cultural status and legal rights earned by women.

In a piece on Thursday titled “Menstruation Gets a Gen Z Makeover,” the Times writes that members of “Gen Z and beyond are more forthcoming about their periods than generations past, and they are more likely to care whether the products they use are environmentally sustainable.” However, throughout the piece, the Times uses the term “menstruator,” despite the fact that biological females are the only individuals who menstruate:

The New York Times just introduced the word “menstruator” into its copy. pic.twitter.com/j9plCY7bJo

— Mary Margaret Olohan (@MaryMargOlohan) January 20, 2022

This should not come as a surprise, particularly from the Times, as the establishment media outlet recently posted a 1,900-word article “on the risks of ‘transgender’ medical procedures for young people — without mentioning their innate and unchangeable male or female sex,” as Breitbart News reported: 

The January 13 article has zero mention of “female,” male,” or even of “sex,” but it does have 30 mentions of “gender” and 23 mentions of “transgender” as it tries to hide the innate male-or-female nature of every person on the planet.

For example, it uses the phrase “the gender they were assigned at birth” instead of describing a person’s male or female sex. That choice matches the demands of the transgender ideology, which insists that an infant’s future feelings about his or her sex are more important than the child’s actual sex.

The Times doubled down this month, leading the charge for the radical transgender agenda by directing readers to recognize a biological male who identifies as a woman, Amy Schneider, as the “first woman” to win $1 million on Jeopardy! 

“On Friday, she became the fourth contestant and the first woman in the history of ‘Jeopardy!’ to surpass $1 million in winnings during regular-season play,” the Times wrote, continually referring to the biological male as “she.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

