NYT Op-Ed Slams Transgender Ideology: Let Tomboys Remain Girls

A New York Times op-ed hit the transgender ideology for being anti-girl and anti-woman, and also prompted many liberal commentators to complain about the harmful impact of pro-transgender advocacy on normal girls and boys.

The April 18 article, titled “My Daughter Is Not Transgender. She’s a Tomboy,” was written by a liberal mother who supports legal rights for people who want to live as members of the opposite sex, but who also insists that girls who act like boys can still be girls:

In general, gay and transgender activists are trying to impose a “‘genderless society” on Americans’ society, which is now built on the recognition that the two equal-and-complementary sexes — both heterosexual and homosexual  — want some single-sex institutions and practices.

That unpopular transgender ideological demand for a “genderless society” would allow children and teenagers to bypass parental objections when asking for taxpayer funds to permanently change their genitalia with hormones and surgery. Women would be forced to accept biological males in their shower rooms and stronger and faster men in their sports leagues. Men would be told that masculinity is toxic and their children should be exposed to pro-transgender curricula in K-12 schools.

All people, including high-status scientists and doctors, would also be punished if they use sexually correct pronouns — “she” or “he” — when they are referring to people who merely say they have the “Gender Identity” of the opposite sex, even in science classrooms and hospitals. Single-sex civic groups would be threatened by lawsuits until they agreed to accept people of both sexes, and insurance companies would be forced to raise premiums to cover the lifetime cost of medical treatment for people struggling to live as the other sex.

Single-sex civic groups would be threatened by lawsuits until they agreed to accept people of both sexes, and insurance companies would be forced to raise premiums to cover the lifetime cost of medical treatment for people struggling to live as the other sex.

Nationwide, only about one-in-four voters support the “gender identity” ideology. Also, there are very few people who wish to live as members of the opposite sex, with estimates ranging from a high of one-in-130 Americans down to one-in-2,400 Americans.

 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

