Obama’s Transgender Video: Cops Must Ignore Local Laws, Science

Barack Obama’s Department of Justice has issued a transgender training video directing police to automatically accept claims by people that they have switched their sex, and to ignore local laws regarding sexual privacy in public bathrooms.

The officer simply accepts the claim — and dismisses the woman’s correct complaint as “probably a misunderstanding.” The video also does not mention that cops are supposed to enforce local laws. The federal message is that cops should suppress their power of observation, forget what they learned about biology, and ignore local laws that exclude men from women’s public bathrooms.

The federal video fully endorses the transgender ideology, which insists that the government should force all Americans to accept and endorse each person’s claim about their sex, no matter what biology or logic or civic rules say. “Transgender people are just trying to be their true selves … we must make every effort to collaborate and learn from the transgender community,” claims the presenter, a D.C.-based policeman, Sgt. Brett Parson.

This federal demand for acceptance of the transgender ideology goes far beyond a request for good manners, for example, asking cops or the public to ignore transgender people quietly using a public bathroom or asking people to refer to transgender people by the names they choose.

That issue of manners and customer-service aspect is addressed in the video. For example, the video instructs officers to inquire how a suspect would like to be addressed.

In a press release about the training video, Acting Director Paul Monteiro of the Community Relations Service informs officers to be courteous when dealing with transgenders.

“Transgender Americans, like all Americans, deserve to be treated with courtesy and respect by law enforcement officers,” said Acting Director Paul Monteiro of CRS. “The information provided in this video will help strengthen the relationship between police and the transgender community, allowing for more effective investigations and safer encounters for officers and citizens alike”

The DoJ then demands that officers must “keep their questions relevant to the contact and remain courteous throughout the encounter.”

But this demand for courtesy is used to hide Obama’s sharp-edged push for the transgender ideology, which if accepted, would force police to gradually blur, stigmatize and bar any Americans from recognizing the valuable and diverse differences between the two sexes, male and female.

Some estimates put the number of people who claim to be transgender in the U.S. at less than 0.03 percent of the population.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail.com

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

