Obama Wants the World to Acknowledge His Oneness

It wasn’t enough that Barack Obama was so narcissistic that the official White House Website actually inserted his name into the biographies of former presidents. That was to ensure that all Americans would be aware of the Chosen One’s spiritual omnipresence throughout American history; all American history, ostensibly, was to prepare for his arrival. 

Jom Roberts, one of the editors of Heritage’s Index of Economic Freedom, worked at the State Department from 1982 to 2007 and used to write these country profiles.  He attested to the fact that he had never seen edits like these under either previous Republican or Democratic Administrations, remarking, “They seem to be not ‘fact sheets’ but brag sheets.”

Worse, Roberts said that when he read the “Fact Sheets” they favored countries that agreed with Obama’s views.

One example Roberts cited of Obama’s overweening arrogance was the “Fact Sheet” on Brazil. Here’s how the Obama version compared with the George W. Bush Administration’s Background Notes:

Obama: 1,200 words. Mentions Obama by name twice. 70% of the document refers to U.S.-Brazil relations. Obama’s contributions voluminously noted on issues including a shared “commitment to combat discrimination based on race, gender, ethnicity, or lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) status; to advance gender equality; a bilateral instrument that targets racism; support for HIV/AIDS prevention, promotion of clean energy technologies in Brazil, and mitigation of climate change.”

Bush: 4,100 words. Never once mentions the name of any U.S. President. Only 300 words devoted to U.S.- Brazil relations, the rest devoted to facts and figures about Brazil.

Now that Obama has successfully inserted himself as the most important figure in American history to America and the world, there’s only one place left for him to conquer. It’s the right time; he referred to it longingly just the other day:

Mars.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

