Omnigender? Whistleblowers Reveal UK’s Woke Deep State Recognises over 100 Genders

Omnigender, pangender, two spirit, and graygender are among the growing list of over 100 genders recognised by Britain’s permanent bureaucracy, whistleblowers within the Civil Service have revealed.

Official Human Resources guidelines have said that Whitehall staff should use the pronouns “ze/zir” for those who do not identify as either a male or a woman, but also noted that civil servants “have the right to… a flexible [gender] expression that differs from day to day,” The Telegraph reported.

Whistleblowers within Whitehall told the British broadsheet that although it has not been disclosed to the public — who fund their salaries — the civil service has recognised over 100 genders in official documents including: “omnigender, pangender, two spirit, gender outlaw, demigender, gendervoid and graygender.”

“This came as quite a surprise to me as I’d always thought there was only two biological sex.”

The report claimed that genders are logged in the personnel records and that those who deliberately “misgender” a colleague will face disciplinary action.

Bureaucrats in the United Kingdom’s Home Office have reportedly threatened to stage a strike over the government’s plan to send illegal boat migrants to Rwanda, with some comparing the crackdown to Nazi Germany. https://t.co/fCTI9DQl6Y

— Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) April 22, 2022

The Civil Service has also reportedly established an internal network for transgender and intersex staff, dubbed ‘a:gender’, which according an internal document is open to those who “self-identify as transgender, transsexual, non-binary, gender fluid, genderqueer, gender variant, cross-dresser, genderless, third gender or bigender, and intersex. ”

A senior staff member at the Department for International Trade claimed to have been told that he should spend 20 per cent of his “corporate objective” time working within “corporate identity networks” in order to build a more “inclusive Civil Service”.

Examples of such activities included attending a “gender non-conforming book club” and celebrating “Non-Binary Awareness Week”.

“I was hired to do trade policy and yet the taxpayer pays me to waste 20 per cent of my corporate work time on this crap,” the official said.

A New Flag Already? Woke London Mayor Sadiq Khan Unveils New LGBTQ+ Flag for ‘IDAHOBIT’https://t.co/EEeb9mzI57

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 19, 2022

The Civil Service also celebrated “World Afro Day” in which staff were told about the “hair bias against Afro hair”.

Following the murder of Sarah Everard and Sabina Nessa in London last year, the Home Office allegedly held “listening circles” in which staff members were segregated by those who identify as a man, identify as a woman, and identify as a “woman of colour”.

“It’s absurd to claim people can self-identify as their opposite sex, let alone another race. This language is now, however, commonplace among civil service newspeak,” it is claimed.

Meanwhile, in contrast to the adults working in Whitehall, Attorney-General Suella Braverman has argued that public schools should not pander to pupils and address them by their chosen pronouns, saying that to her it seemed as though schools were actively engaging in attempts to spark gender dysphoria within children.

Drain the Swamp? Boris Looks to Axe 91,000 Civil Servant Jobshttps://t.co/ZBO2i5vvbS

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 13, 2022

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

