Parents Sue School District for Allowing Children to Change Gender Identity Without Parental Notice

A group of parents in Madison, Wisconsin, has filed a lawsuit against the Madison Metropolitan School District (MMSD) for violating parental rights by implementing a policy that allows children to change their gender identity without parental notice or consent.

The MMSD policy, titled “Guidance & Policies to Support Transgender, Non-binary & Gender-Expansive Students,” contains content and information provided by LGBTQ+ rights activist group GLSEN.

Educators, if you're wondering how including pronouns can make your classroom more welcoming for students, check out this resource: https://t.co/uMUdr5dDwM

— GLSEN (@GLSEN) February 8, 2020

The district shall ensure that all personally identifiable and medical information relating to transgender, nonbinary, and gender-expansive students shall be kept confidential in accordance with applicable state, local, and federal privacy laws. School staff shall not disclose any information that may reveal a student’s gender identity to others, including parents or guardians and other school staff, unless legally required to do so or unless the student has authorized such disclosure.

Transgender, non-binary, and gender-expansive students have the right to discuss and express their gender identity and expression openly and to decide when, with whom, and how much to share private information. If a student chooses to use a different name, to transition at school, or to disclose their gender identity to staff or other students, this does not authorize school staff to disclose a student’s personally identifiable or medical information.

On Page 16, the policy states:

Students identified as transgender, non-binary, and gender-expansive may have not come out to their families regarding their gender identity.

Disclosing a student’s personal information such as gender identity or sexual orientation can pose imminent safety risks, such as losing family support and housing.

“Madison schools have adopted policies that violate constitutionally recognized parental rights,” said WILL President and General Counsel Rick Esenberg. “A public school district should not, and cannot, make decisions reserved for parents.”

The district responded, however, on January 31 that it would not be updating its policy.

According to NBC15, MMSD spokesperson Tim LeMonds said the district is holding fast to its policy for gender dysphoric students.

“MMSD prioritizes working in collaboration with families to support our students and it is always our preferred method of support,” he said. “MMSD must also prioritize the safety and wellbeing of every individual student who walks through its doors each day.”

WILL noted gender dysphoria is a mental health issue and parents have the right to make healthcare decisions on behalf of their children.

Additionally, WILL observed MMSD’s policies “have religious significance.”

“MMSD’s policy interferes with parents’ free-exercise rights to raise their children in accordance with their religious beliefs and to select a treatment approach consistent with those beliefs,” WILL asserted.

 

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

