Pastor claims public schools turn kids into ‘transgender communists’

A pastor has claimed that public schools will turn kids into “transgender communists”.

The extraordinary claim comes from Pastor Kevin Swanson, an Orthodox Presbyterian pastor and broadcaster from Colorado.

Mr Swanson took to his online radio show Generations Radio to warn parents to pull their kids out of non-private schools.

The pastor urged people to home-school their kids or send them to evangelical religious schools, because government-run schools will make them “transgender communists”.

He said: “The state has an agenda with your children… I think if you begin to see the trajectory of where things have gone and you just draw it out for the next five, six, eight years, you’re going to find this is the agenda.

The pastor continued: “The goals of the educational program for your kids in the public schools… the goals of the world for your children is that your kids be transgendered and communist by 20 years of age.”

He added: “Of course this is the agenda.



“Parents, just get serious about it. Do you want your kids transgendered and communist at 18 years of age?

“Is that your goal? If it isn’t, then maybe you ought to bring a different vision into the education of your children.”

Swanson recently claimed that people who have sex with animals are going to team up with homosexuals to take over the world after the release of live-action Disney film Beauty and the Beast.

The film came under fire from evangelicals for featuring a minor gay character, but Swanson is also worried about the teenage girl falling in love with a buffalo.

Raising the film’s main love story, Swanson continued: “Liberals appear to be okay with inter-species breeding.

“This is not a new thing… apparently these guys are A-OK with it. The evolutionary world view cannot argue against beastiality. It simply cannot take an ethical position against it.

He continued: “Christians, I don’t believe, can allow for this. Humans are made in the image of God. Humans are assigned a spouse which happens to be a member of the opposite sex.

“Friends, God’s law forbids it … Christians should not allow for this, man. We cannot allow for humans to interbreed with other species. It’s just wrong, wrong, wrong. It’s confusion, it’s unnatural.

“We are in some of the most radical, most anti-biblical, the most immoral, the most unethical, the most wicked sexual environment that the world has ever known, right now.”

Listen to the clip here.

The Colorado pastor is known for his extreme comments, and Republican Senator Ted Cruz was forced to disavow any links to him last year after attending a rally at which Swanson called for gay people to be put to death.

Cruz had attended the National Religious Liberties Conference, which was organised by Swanson.

At the event, Swanson shouted: “Yes, Leviticus calls for the death penalty for homosexuals! Yes, the Apostle Paul does say that homosexuals are worthy of death! His words, not mine, and [screaming] I AM NOT ASHAMED! I am not ashamed of the truth of the word of God!”

For months Cruz ignored calls to apologise for appearing alongside Swanson – who also claims that parents should drown children who want to read Harry Potter.

However, a Cruz spokesperson did eventually say in a statement: “Senator Cruz is passionate about religious liberties.

“Many respected organizations were sponsoring [the conference], but, given these offensive comments, it was a mistake for Senator Cruz to appear at the event.”

