Petition Launched to Stop Laurel Hubbard Becoming First Trans Athlete to Compete at Olympics

A petition challenging the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) transgender policy and calling for the exclusion of New Zealand weightlifter Laurel Hubbard from competing in Tokyo later this month is building with more than 21,000 signatures already added.

As Breitbart News reported, Hubbard transitioned in 2012 and has been competing at home and would have been on New Zealand’s last Olympics team if it wasn’t for an injury that prevented it.

Now a change.org petition is calling for a review and overhaul of the IOC’s policy on transgender athletes and has so-far received more than 21,000 signatures.

“This is unfair to women due to the incontrovertible physical advantage that transwomen have,” the petition said.

Laurel Hubbard, a New Zealand weightlifter born male but now competing as a transgender female, is working to win a spot at the Olympics. https://t.co/wlBkcoqdn7

— Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) March 2, 2020

The petition argues the IOC’s policy on transgender athletes “completely ignores” any physical advantages in speed, height, stamina and strength that a “male-born athlete will have”.

The Olympic Committee released a consensus in 2015 in which it approved the eligibility of transgender women to compete in the games under certain conditions.

Belgium’s Anna Van Bellinghen, who will likely compete against Hubbard, said the New Zealander’s presence would be “like a bad joke” for women competitors.

“The whole thing feels like a bad joke…we are powerless.” https://t.co/yJpd9DVN7i

— Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) May 31, 2021

New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern defended the weightlifter’s inclusion in this summer’s competition, saying it was in line with the rules.

“Parties here have simply followed the rules. That’s the case for Laurel but also the team in New Zealand – they have followed the rules,” she told reporters in Wellington last month. “The alternative is to have someone who followed the rules but then is denied the ability to participate.

”So, ultimately, I leave it to those bodies and that’s the decision they have made and it’s in keeping with the standard that has been set globally.“

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

