Photos Surface of Bruce Jenner Wearing a Dress Outside His Mansion

Just days ahead of the premiere of his televised special with ABC’s Diane Sawyer, Bruce Jenner was allegedly photographed wearing a dress outside of his Southern California home this week.

Hot Damn Is Bruce Jenner Looking Fine In That Dress Or What!? http://t.co/6uLnvMvYET pic.twitter.com/RkSPm4Gchv

— Charm City Wire (@charmcitywire) April 22, 2015

Genuine good luck to Bruce Jenner… I hope she will be happy, looking good in a maxi as well! #GoBruce x pic.twitter.com/SxNF6qfF9K

— Rylan Clark-Neal (@Rylan) April 22, 2015

The 65-year-old father of six recently contacted police to lodge a complaint against paparazzi who have been staking out his home, TMZ reports, and L.A. County Sheriff’s deputies reportedly visited the residence Tuesday to investigate his claims.

From a nearby hillside with a telephoto lens, a photographer captured Jenner sporting the black-and-white dress, with a slit from the knee to the hem, while stretching and smoking a cigarette on his patio.

ABC has been vague in teasers for the interview with the former Olympian, but Bruce is expected to reveal his transition to female, which is something he has wanted for decades.

Jenner will reportedly present himself as a woman publicly for the first time during the two-hour special, but does not plan to reveal his new feminine name, or dress as a woman.

In March, it was reported he was in recovery after a procedure to receive breast implants.

“Bruce had silicone breast implants put in a few weeks ago,” a person close to the Jenner family said at the time. “He went with a smaller implant because he didn’t want to look ridiculous.”

Jenner was emotional, “but finally feels like this is the body he has meant to have,” the anonymous source claimed.

“Recovery hasn’t been that difficult, but Bruce has had to sleep in a recliner to help with the healing,” the person claimed. “He’s not allowed to lift anything, and he has to wear a bra 24/7, but he’s expected to resume normal activities in the next six weeks.”

He is also scheduled to undergo a “full gender reassignment surgery,” which will take place some time in May or June, and he might opt to upgrade his breast size, after the surgery.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

