Piers Morgan has somehow used the snow to target transgender people

Snow is falling all around us, children are playing and having fun – so of course, Piers Morgan has to keep up his reputation as a Grinch.

Of course, in the end the Grinch’s heart grew three sizes.

We’re not holding out much hope for Piers.

The Good Morning Britain host has been on a crusade this year against transgender people and gender-neutral facilities.

Just a few weeks ago, the TV presenter bravely took a stand against tiny humans who just want to wear a tiara sometimes and boots on other days.

Because god forbid children play dress-up in non-stereotypical ways.

And over the weekend, while everyone was getting into the Christmas spirit, frolicking in the snow and generally enjoying the winter wonderland, in stomped Piers to ruin the fun.



The transphobe tweeted: “Right, I’m off to build a non-binary gender fluid snowperson. ❄️❄️”

He couldn’t just let everyone celebrate the festive snowfall; he had to have a dig at non-cisgender people.

There was also no need to use the term ‘non-binary’ if he was going to follow it with ‘gender fluid’ – which is a non-binary concept.

Not that we would expect much from a man with a huge online platform who chooses to tell his viewers that “schools are now running riot with non-binary kids.

“It’s like a contagion.”

That’s what he told non-binary couple Fox Fisher and Owl when he interviewed them on GMB.

And in October, Morgan lashed out at a genderfluid 21-year-old who he invited on the show, accusing them of being “confused”.

Morgan flat-out denied Tabitha or Tate Downs-King’s identity to their face, telling them that “you can’t be male and female…you’re born one or the other.”

But, as he often does when trying to have a dig at gender non-conforming people and their supporters, Piers inadvertently made a decent point in his tweet.

After all, ‘snowman’ is a patriarchal term, and there’s no reason why a snow-based representation of a human should have a gender.

“Snowperson” makes much more sense.

