Police Arrest Dozens as Antifa, Counter-Protesters Clash at LA Spa

Los Angeles police arrested dozens of people during a protest/counter-protest near the infamous Wi Spa. Police also founds multiple weapons scattered on the ground in the area of the protest.

The area has cleared of protesters. Many people chose to leave although several dozen refused and have been arrested for failure to disperse. Numerous weapons -including knives and mace- were found on the ground in the area where the arrests were made

— LAPD PIO (@LAPDPIO) July 17, 2021

Police clash with Antifa counter-protesting at the Wi Spa, after several smoke bombs & water bottles were thrown at protesters across the street #WiSpa #LosAngeles pic.twitter.com/fRoXWtmAng

— Brendan Gutenschwager (@BGOnTheScene) July 17, 2021

Conservatives gathered near the controversial Wi Spa to call for women-only spaces after a trans woman reportedly exposed her “male genitalia” in the women’s area of the spa.

Protesters have arrived outside the Wi Spa in Los Angeles, calling for women-only spaces after an incident where a woman claims she was exposed to male genitalia on the female side of the spa #WiSpa #LA pic.twitter.com/5ewZmMoaSF

— Brendan Gutenschwager (@BGOnTheScene) July 17, 2021

LA police officials reported protesters threw numerous smoke bombs and other projectiles at officers. They also found several weapons including knives, a stun gun, and pepper spray.

At a protest near Wilshire Bl & Rampart Bl, 2 groups clashed. Smoke bombs/projectiles were thrown at ofcrs & a dispersal order was issued. Several dozen people were arrested. Numerous items in violation of 55.07 LAMC were found discarded including a stungun, knives, pepper spray pic.twitter.com/exk7vvTfRm

— LAPD HQ (@LAPDHQ) July 17, 2021

After protesters refused to disperse, police officials said they arrested dozens of people before finally clearing the area.

Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior news contributor for the Breitbart Texas-Border team. He is an original member of the Breitbart Texas team. Price is a regular panelist on Fox 26 Houston’s What’s Your Point? Sunday-morning talk show. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX and Facebook.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

