Polyamorous transgender Satanic high priestess explains why she’s running for office as a Republican

A polyamorous transgender Satanistic priestess who is running for office in New Hampshire has explained why she is doing so as a Republican.

Aria DiMezzo, founder and high priest of the Reformed Satanic Church, was elected unopposed in the Republican primary for county sheriff in Cheshire County, New Hampshire last month, receiving more than 4,000 votes.

The candidate, a former libertarian who is campaigning on a platform of law enforcement accountability under the slogan “F**k the police”, explained that she registered as a Republican as a ploy to get onto the ballot when the presumed GOP candidate dropped out and no other candidates came forward in the heavily-Democratic district.

According to local outlet WGME, she said: “Anyone who takes a look at me knows pretty much right off the bat that I’m clearly not a Republican.

“I’m just using the party infrastructure to run for office. I was 100 per cent upfront about who I am. I never hid any of it.

“Anyone who bothered to Google me would have found all this stuff about me and they would have seen the anti-cop things that I was posting all over social media.”

In her platform, DiMezzo says that “assuming my deputies don’t immediately quit upon my being sworn in”, she would set them to work “policing the police”.

She adds: “It’s tragic what has been done to police officers. None of them are bad people. In fact, my encounters with Keene PD show them to be upstanding, noble people who are generally enforcing the arbitrary rules of a system they don’t agree with.

“They didn’t become cops to pull people over for broken taillights or turn signals blinking too fast. They became cops because they care about other people, and they want to help, but they became trapped in the state apparatus that turned them into road pirates.”

DiMezzo said the response to her candidacy has been “overwhelming positive,” adding: “When I walk down the street, people cheer. They tell me they are going to vote for me. It’s great.”

The local Republican Party has remained silent on DiMezzo’s campaign, though some members are promoting a write-in campaign for Earl Nelson, a former police chief.

According to WGME, he said: “My feeling is that she is making a political statement. Hey, this is America. She can make her statement.

“I’ve been in law enforcement for a long time and I have a lot of respect for the profession in general. To see the signs that say ‘F*** The Police’, disarm the police, it’s just not appropriate.”

Democratic incumbent Eli Rivera, who has held the sheriff’s office since 2012, responded: “I have always embraced a positive campaign and will leave your questions about my opponent and the write-in campaign to be answered by the Republican Party.”

