Princeton Prof: Transgenderism Not Scientific, ‘Superstitious Belief’

A noted Princeton University professor has attacked the very notion of transgenderism, saying that the belief “that a woman can be trapped inside a man’s body” is ludicrous and superstitious, with no basis in medical fact.

There are few superstitious beliefs as absurd as the idea that a woman can be trapped in a man’s body & vv. But in the Age of Feeling . . .

— Robert P. George (@McCormickProf) May 15, 2016


With Obama’s bathroom edict, the right of parents to direct the upbringing and education of children is in graver peril than ever. Vouchers!

— Robert P. George (@McCormickProf) May 15, 2016


George’s concerns over the transgender movement echo the recent statement by the American College of Pediatricians, which argued forcefully against encouraging young people to question their own biological sexuality.

“A person’s belief that he or she is something they are not is, at best, a sign of confused thinking,” the doctors stated. “When an otherwise healthy biological boy believes he is a girl, or an otherwise healthy biological girl believes she is a boy, an objective psychological problem exists that lies in the mind not the body, and it should be treated as such.”

The letter from the Obama administration treats gender dysphoria as if it were a healthy, rather than pathological, mental condition.

“Transgender describes those individuals whose gender identity is different from the sex they were assigned at birth. A transgender male is someone who identifies as male but was assigned the sex of female at birth; a transgender female is someone who identifies as female but was assigned the sex of male at birth,” the letter asserts.

Though preceding the Obama edict by nearly two months, the Pediatricians’ statement reads like a direct response to the unprecedented measure.

“Endorsing gender discordance as normal via public education and legal policies will confuse children and parents, leading more children to present to ‘gender clinics’ where they will be given puberty-blocking drugs,” the physicians warned.

“Conditioning children into believing that a lifetime of chemical and surgical impersonation of the opposite sex is normal and healthful is child abuse,” they concluded.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter   Follow @tdwilliamsrome


Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

