Rage Against the Machine’s Pro-Abortion Message Bows to Woke Trans-Mania — Calls Mothers ‘Birth-Givers’

The rock band Rage Against the Machine’s pro-abortion message during a weekend show bowed to the woke transgender-mania, calling mothers “birth-givers.”

During the performance of their 1994 song, “Freedom,” the band displayed a message on a screen reading: “Forced birth in a country with no universal healthcare and where the cost of giving birth is $4,000 to $15,000.”

“Forced birth in a country that is the only wealthy country in the world without any guaranteed paid parental leave at the national level,” read a follow-up message.

“Forced birth in a country where Black birth-givers experience maternal mortality two to three times higher than that of white birth-givers,” the caption bowing to the woke trans-mania read.

“Abort the Supreme Court,” @RATM proclaim via video message @AVMTheatre Saturday for their reunion tour kickoff. Review and set list @journalsentinel https://t.co/3xD7McEriO pic.twitter.com/1PLXbq2dFY

— Piet Levy (@pietlevy) July 10, 2022

The band also featured goading visuals during its show, which included an El Paso police vehicle alight, Border Police officers hunting an individual, refugees in a boat spotted by a helicopter, and an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officer dummy being beaten.

Rage Against the Machine also appeared to link the right to abortion and the likelihood of a child being a victim of gun violence, adding, “Forced birth in a country where gun violence is the number one cause of death among children and teenagers.”



A post shared by Rage Against The Machine (@rageagainstthemachine)

This is not the first time Rage Against the Machine has voiced its political ideology.

In 2018, the band’s guitarist, Tom Morello, proposed the formation of a “Children’s Liberation Army” made of “disgruntled vets” to take on the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency.

Ok people of good conscience & disgruntled vets I’m thinking of putting together a Children’s Liberation Army to take on ICE. WHOS IN?

— Tom Morello (@tmorello) June 19, 2018

In 2016, Morello urged people to “stand up against” then-Presidential candidate Donald Trump, referring to him as a “frat house rapist” and war-mongering racist.

You can follow Alana Mastrangelo on Facebook and Twitter at @ARmastrangelo, and on Instagram.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

