Report: Staff at Largest LGBT Rights Group in U.S. Say Work Environment ‘Sexist,’ ‘White Men’s Club’

The largest LGBT advocacy organization in the country has a diversity problem, according to a report on the work environment at the Human Rights Campaign (HRC).

Staff reportedly often described the organization’s environment as a “white men’s club,” said the report, adding that HRC has “an organizational culture rooted in a white, masculine orientation which is judgmental of all those who don’t fit that mold.”

“Disparate treatment toward women and those with ‘soft skills’ was frequently cited by staff — both men and women — and there is a sense that if you operate outside of that orientation, you will not be successful at HRC,” the report continued.

Workers at HRC participated in focus groups and surveys, and results revealed major problems within the organization that include how staff is treated—including those who are transgender—and concerns about whether HRC is actually committed to diversity and inclusion.

“Leadership culture is experienced as homogenous — gay, white, male,” the report indicated. “Exclusion was broad-based and hit all identity groups within HRC. A judgmental working environment, particularly concerning women and feminine-identified individuals, was highlighted in survey responses.”

According to Buzzfeed, the report also indicates that 7 of 31 men who have been promoted at HRC have only worked there less than two years. By contrast, no women who have worked less than two years have been promoted.

HRC said they are addressing the issues presented in the report, and Buzzfeed notes they have now launched employee resource groups for “transgender and gender-expansive employees, people of color, women, bisexual employees, and remote employees.”

HRC describes itself as “the largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

