Republican politician who filmed herself harassing transgender woman loses election

A Republican candidate who live-streamed herself harassing a transgender woman in a bathroom has lost her election.

Jazmina Saavedra, who was running as a Republican in California’s 44th Congressional district, came in third place in the primary election.

Saavedra, who is also a spokesperson for the group ‘Latinos For Trump’, made headlines after she filmed herself shouting abuse at a transgender woman who was using the bathroom in a Denny’s restaurant.

In the Congressional primary held on June 5, Saavedra gained just over 4,000 votes, around 10% of the total.

Incumbent Democrat Nanette Barragan landed 66% of the vote.

Saavedra was also beaten by the Democratic Mayor of Compton, Aja Brown, who had unofficially withdrawn from the election several months ago.

During the incident on May 18, Saavedra – who appears to have involved herself after another customer complained – tells her audience: “I’m trying to use the ladies’ room, and there is a man here saying that he’s a lady. This guy insists he’s a lady.”

Entering the bathroom with the camera on and broadcasting live on Facebook, she then shouts at the woman: “Why you using the ladies’ room?

“You invading my privacy because I’m a woman. You violated my right, you sick [sic], you stupid sick.”

Saavedra then waits outside the toilets to ambush the trans woman with the camera, calling them a “stupid guy” and adding: “Next time use the men’s room, or nobody’s room.

The former candidate’s actions were sharply condemned by many, including the Human Rights Campaign and Rep. Barragan.

After the incident, Barragan told the Daily Beast: “I was appalled by the treatment that this woman received for simply trying to use the restroom.



“Everyone has the right to their own identity, and the right not to be discriminated against for who they are.”

As well as losing her election, Saavedra may now face a criminal probe about the incident.

In May, the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and the Human Rights Campaign wrote to the office of California’s Attorney General Xavier Beccerra, urging him to open a probe of Saavedra on hate crime charges.

Although the 44th Congressional district of California is strongly Democrat, Republican candidates have typically performed well in elections, and the seat has had several Republican incumbents in the previous decade.

The fourth-place candidate was actress Stacey Dash, who sparked controversy after stating that transgender women should ‘pee in the bushes.’

The Trump-supporting actress, best known as the star of the Nineties chick-flick Clueless, had filed paperwork with the Federal Election Commission to run in California’s 44th District.

However, after her political ambitions were met with a frosty reception, Dash later withdrew.

The former actress described “the overall bitterness” of US politics as a turn-off, and reckons it would have eventually paid a toll on her and her family’s emotional well-being.

Dash gained just under 3,000 votes.

