Right-wingers blame ‘transgender bathrooms’ for flood emergency in California

Right-wingers have blamed “sex change operations” and “transgender bathrooms” for a flooding emergency alert in California.

More than 180,000 people have been evacuated from their homes in California after an emergency was declared at Oroville Dam, the tallest dam in the United States.

Damage to the dam’s emergency spillway coupled with high rainwater sparked the emergency incident, leading to fears of a breach that would risk flooding thousands of homes.

Of course, local Republicans know exactly who to blame: transgender people.

Breitbart writer Katy Grimes led the criticism in a Facebook post that has been shared hundreds of times, writing: “Oroville Dam: Dept. Water Resources ignored warnings 12 years ago – they did not want to incur the extra costs.

“Instead, CA Gov. Brown and legislative Democrats have prioritized illegal aliens, inmate sex change operations, building homes for the homeless, transgender bathrooms, Eric Holder’s consulting services, and Climate change awareness, as our infrastructure is crumbling.”

UCI Republicans head Ariana Rowlands, also a writer at Breitbart, joined her in blaming “spending on inmate sex change operations and transgender bathrooms”.

It is unclear how much money has been diverted from Water Resources to be spent on “transgender bathrooms”, but we’re willing to bet it’s a big fat $0.

Transgender people are helpfully relieving homosexuals of their long-standing role in being the cause of natural disasters.

Loyal readers will be aware that the homosexual agenda has been responsible for several floods and earthquakes in the past, most notably when all the gays getting married in England caused flooding in 2014, as UKIP’s David Silvester helpfully highlighted.

The proliferation of the gay agenda also led to retribution in Texas, where God unleashed floods after the city of Houston dared to elect a lesbian mayor.

Meanwhile, the Earth’s convulsion under the weight of human sin last year led to earthquakes in New Zealand.

 

