Right-wing activists brand National Geographic editor a ‘child abuser’ over transgender cover

Right-wing activists have branded the editor of National Geographic Magazine a child abuser – because the magazine ran a cover featuring a transgender child.

8-year-old trans girl Avery Jackson is featured on the latest special issue of National Geographic.

The magazine, focused on ‘Gender Revolution’, features stories of trans and gender non-confirming young people are featured in the issue.

The special issue sent to subscribers will feature Jackson on the cover, while a second cover for sale on newsstands features a group of gender-variant young people.

However, it has not gone down well with activists from the anti-LGBT American Family Association, who have put out a call for supporters to harass the magazine’s editor, Susan Goldberg.

A call to action put out by the group accuses her of “using a young child in an abusive manner.”

A pre-written email circulated by the group as part of a campaign to attack the issue says: “Dear Mrs. Goldberg,

“I am offended by your choice to place a young child that is struggling with gender dysphoria on the cover of your January edition.

“Out of all of the ‘transgender’ adults you could have chosen as your feature, you chose to exploit a young boy. Your entire feature focuses specifically on children, which is exploitation at its worst.

“From the beginning of mankind there have been only two sexes: male and female. No child should be used to push an unnatural social agenda.

“I am asking that you publicly apologize for taking advantage of these children in this manner and commit to avoiding similar actions in the future.

The AFA added: “National Geographic is the latest print media company to abandon what it does best to foist a lifestyle in the American public that the medical community identifies as unhealthy.

“Imagine the pain and psychological trauma gender dysphoria causes children and adults. Rather than abandoning geography to shame Americans into embracing such a lifestyle, we should be helping individuals who struggle with this disorder. That is, helping confused individuals accept their wonderfully crafted and God-given biology.”

The 8-year-old earlier this year raised enough funds to open a Transgender House across from the Westboro Baptist Church.

