Ron DeSantis: 14-Year-Old Can’t Get a Tattoo but Medical Establishment Pushing Sex Changes for Minors

Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) on Tuesday highlighted the absurdity of the medical establishment as it pushes sex changes for minors, deeming this type of ideology “very, very dangerous.”

There is a very dangerous trend, the governor explained, of institutions and so-called experts pushing radical ideologies as fact, such as promoting sex changes for minors as the latest example.

“And, you know, these are kids that are going through a growing time in their life. There’s a lot of different factors and most of the dysphoria resolves itself by the time they become adults. So why would you disfigure a minor?” he asked.

“And so, but this is something that the medical establishment has grabbed onto as like something that is about, I don’t know, like opportunity, I don’t even know how they’re couching it, but other countries have gone down this road in Europe. They recognized this was damaging these kids and they’ve reversed course because they’ve actually followed the data,” he said, noting that Florida is also following the data to fight against the medical establishment, which continues to push ideologies that are “very, very dangerous.”

Indeed, Florida has taken steps to challenge the medical establishment in this particular realm. A recent report from Florida Medicaid, requested by the Secretary of the Agency for Health Care Administration (AHCA), concluded that “gender-affirming” treatments for individuals struggling with gender dysphoria — from puberty blockers to surgeries — are not proven as “safe or effective” treatments but are “experimental and investigational.”

It was revealed last week that Florida is barring Medicaid from covering transgender procedures — a rule which will go into effect August 21.

DeSantis’s remarks follow the widespread push to normalize transgender procedures on minors — something Boston Children’s Hospital prides itself on, touting its Center for Gender Surgery, which offers “gender affirmation surgery services” for “eligible adolescents and young adults.”

WATCH:



Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

