Ron DeSantis Rips Reporter for Peddling Fake News on Parental Rights Bill: ‘It’s Why People Don’t Trust People Like You’

Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) on Monday ripped a reporter after he peddled fake news about the parental rights bill in the state legislature, which leftists have mischaracterized as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill.

“Does it say that in the bill?” DeSantis asked, repeating the question: “Does it say that in the bill? I’m asking you to tell me what’s in the bill, because you are pushing false narratives. It doesn’t matter what critics say.”

“For who? For grades pre-k through three — 5-year-olds, 6-year-olds, 7-year-olds. The idea that you wouldn’t be honest about that and tell people what it actually says– it’s why people don’t trust people like you, because you peddle false narratives,” DeSantis said, triggering applause.

“We’re going to make sure that parents are going to be able to send their kids to kindergarten without having some of this stuff injected in their school curriculum,” he added.

JUST NOW: I asked @GovRonDeSantis if he supported HB 1557, the legislation critics call the 'Don't Say Gay' bill.https://t.co/CGiooSrKYn @WFLA https://t.co/H34CGSj7BJ pic.twitter.com/C518l1QaC3

— Evan Donovan (@EvanDonovan) March 7, 2022

Yet state Democrat lawmakers are continuing to push the false narrative, as Florida Senate Democrats on Monday posted a video of state Senators Janet Cruz, Loranne Ausley, Tina Polsky, and Lori Berman joyously singing a gay chant:

We’ve got one thing to say to our GOP colleagues — GAY! pic.twitter.com/AiXzW0chUq

— Florida Senate Democrats (@FLSenateDems) March 7, 2022

This is not the first time DeSantis has addressed members of the establishment media for pushing misleading narratives. He faced a similar question last week and provided a similar answer.

“And so you actually look at the bill, and it says no sexual instruction in grades pre-k through three. And so how many parents want their kindergarteners to have transgenderism or something injected into classroom instruction? And so I think those are very young kids. I think the legislature is basically trying to give parents assurance that, you know, they’re going to be able to go and this stuff’s not going to be there,” he said, adding that there is “nothing in the bill that says anything about you can’t say or this say.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

