Rurangi: how to stream, release date and trailer for award-winning transgender series set in New Zealand

Rurangi, a transgender drama series set in rural New Zealand, has been picked up by international streaming services.

The show, which is written by and stars trans people, will make its debut on Hulu in the US in 2021.

The plot follows Caz Davis, a transgender activist who returns to the remote and politically divided dairy community of Rūrangi after a decade away.

Upon his return Caz hopes to connect with his estranged father, who he hasn’t spoken to since before his transition, as well as reconnecting with his own Māori roots.

The series sees trans actor Elz Carrad play the lead role, who’s been described as a “star in the making” by reviewers, and it is written and co-produced by trans activist Cole Meyers.

Director Max Currie told Deadline: “I’m soaked with cheap champagne, I can’t find my shoe and noise control is probably on the way ’cause holy cow we are streaming on Hulu!

“This is proof the sky’s the limit for New Zealand’s burgeoning trans talent, especially newcomer Elz Carrad, who’s gonna set your hair on fire. I’m beyond proud to be able to say: you saw him on Hulu first.”

The first series features five episodes and you can watch the trailer below, plus it has already been confirmed that Rurangi is being renewed for a second season.



The director also weighed in on the debate of cis actors playing trans roles, telling GQ Australia: “I signed onto the project with a lot of trepidation because one of the conditions was that all trans characters be played by trans actors.

“And no one really knew who was out there. It’s this whole chicken-and-egg thing of people not getting opportunities so there aren’t that many prominent trans actors. So I was really worried that we weren’t going to find someone with a lot of experience.”

He added that they found someone really special in lead actor Elz’s audition tape noting it “was extraordinary”, while the diverse cast also includes a number of other trans actors.

As well as a series edition, it has been cut as a film for theatrical release in New Zealand, recently winning the Audience Award at Frameline San Francisco International LGBTQ+ Film Festival.

Viewers in the US will be able to watch the series via Hulu later this year, while UK rights to the film have been acquired by Peccadillo Pictures with a release date of 17 March as part of the BFI Flare film festival.

To sign up to Hulu+ Live TV which includes live and on demand shows, movies and more or to sign up to the Hulu streaming service go to hulu.com.

The streaming service is also home to the likes of Love, Victor, The United States vs Billie Holiday and queer festive rom-com Happiest Season.

This article contains affiliate links, PinkNews may earn revenue if you click through and purchase products through the links.

