Sadiq Khan Bringing ‘Gender Neutral’ Toilets to London to ‘Reflect the Incredible Diversity of the City’

London’s left-liberal mayor is issuing detailed guidance to developers calling for “gender neutral” toilets to “reflect the incredible diversity” of the capital.

The former lawyer, who is known in the U.S. for representing the anti-white, anti-Semitic Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, and was accused of courting Islamists during his election campaign, indicated that he sees toilets as a very important battleground in the fight for social justice.

“We need a range of toilets that reflect the incredible diversity of this city — giving people the confidence to move around London with dignity,” he added.

From U Alberta: "Prioritize the rights and needs of trans, non-binary, and non-heterosexual people in policy and design decision-making." pic.twitter.com/D7d5D9EUOB

— Jordan B Peterson (@jordanbpeterson) September 26, 2017

Andrea Williams, chief executive of Christian Concern, told George Osborne’s Evening Standard that Khan’s policy was just the latest move in “an ideological tsunami that sweeps commonsense and biological reality aside”.

London sees more rapes, more robberies, and more violent crime than the U.S. metropolis once so notorious for high crime rates that it was chosen as the setting for Charles Bronson’s Death Wish.

It has also become notorious as a global capital for acid attacks and Islamist extremism, with Khan admitting that there are over 200 former Islamic State fighters in the city, largely unmonitored.

Reported rapes are running three times higher in London than in NYC https://t.co/oc60cWbDAZ

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 21, 2017

Khan blames Tory cutbacks for the Metropolitan Police Force’s retreat in the face of the growing crime wave, but is himself responsible for between 15 and 20 per cent of its funding.

He has not always appeared to share the priorities of the public when it comes to policing, channelling funds towards initiatives such as an “online hate crime hub” costing almost £2 million.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

