Scarlett Johansson Drops Transgender Role Following Backlash

Scarlett Johansson will no longer play a transgender character in upcoming movie Rub and Tug following complaints from left-wing LGBT activists.

“I have great admiration and love for the trans community and am grateful that the conversation regarding inclusivity in Hollywood continues. According to GLAAD, LGBTQ+ characters dropped 40% in 2017 from the previous year, with no representation of trans characters in any major studio release,” she continued. “While I would have loved the opportunity to bring Dante’s story and transition to life, I understand why many feel he should be portrayed by a transgender person, and I am thankful that this casting debate, albeit controversial, has sparked a larger conversation about diversity and representation in film.”

According to the Hollywood Reporter, Johansson received an “immediate online backlash” after it was revealed that she would play a transgender character.

“The majority of online commenters argued that the role should have gone to a trans performer,” they reported, adding that transgender actor Trace Lysette was among those who criticized the casting choice.

The outrage over the casting of Johansson marks a significant turn fo Hollywood. In 2006, actress Felicity Huffman was nominated for an Oscar for playing a transgender character in the movie Transamerica.

“I criticized those who suggested that she was doing anything nefarious by taking this job… Apparently, that radical view — that actors should be free to act — is beyond the pale of acceptable opinion, as just a few hours after it went up, the piece was erased from the site following a campaign against me,” explained Greenbaum in an open letter following her resignation. “I wish I could say I’m surprised.”

Greenbaum then added that “the capitulation on the part of those who are supposed to be the adults to the mob” is a “pattern happening all over the country within institutions that pride themselves on open-mindedness and liberalism.”

Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington, or like his page at Facebook.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

