Schools closed after Oklahoma parents threaten to castrate transgender child

An entire school district has been closed after parents threatened a transgender girl with castration and a beating because she used the girls’ bathroom.

The horrific messages, which referred to 12-year-old Maddie as “it,” “this thing,” “half baked maggot” and “the transgender,” were posted on a Facebook group for parents of students in Achille, Oklahoma.

Earlier this year, an Indiana teacher who refused to use trans pupils’ chosen names resigned because his religious beliefs conflicted with his school’s policy.

The two schools in Achille will be closed until Wednesday (August 15) after Maddie – who usually goes to the staff bathroom – used a girls’ toilet once, on the first day of seventh grade.

Local resident Jamie Crenshaw responded to news of this on the Facebook group, writing: “The transgender is already using the girls bathroom,” adding: “Enough is enough.”

This sparked a wave of hatred against Maddie, who has identified as a girl since fifth grade, with Eddie Belcher writing: “If he wants to be a female make him a female.

“A good sharp knife will do the job really quick.”

Another group member, Kevin Lee Bickerstaff, said: “Just tell the kids to kick ass in the bathroom and it won’t want to come back!”

One post by Seth Cooper suggested that Parker, who it is understood is Jamie Crenshaw’s son, “whip his ass until he quits coming to school.”

Another participant, Waylon Lott, referred to an LGBT+ staff member at the school, writing: “I let the queer teacher get me worked up! This is even worse! Lol.”

Cooper responded to him, saying: “Lmao, both cases are BS, neither one of them should be allowed near th [sic] school.”



After the abuse was brought to light through screenshots posted on the district’s official Facebook page, Maddie’s mother Brandy filed a restraining order on August 10 against Burney Crenshaw, Jamie’s husband, who she identified as a ringleader.

Brandy told local news station KXII-TV: “She hadn’t been told where the staff bathroom was.

“Before she was able to be told, she had to pee, so she used the girls’ bathroom one single time.”

When the abuse surfaced – including the castration comment – Brandy became so afraid for her children’s safety that they no longer sleep at home at night.

“That’s a threat against her life – that’s scary,” she said.

“These are adults making threats – I don’t understand it.”

Brandy added: “She’s an awesome kid. To see any fear in her – I can’t explain how bad that hurts me.”

Achille ISD Superintendent Rick Beene told Them: “We are putting in extra measures to help safeguard our students.

“We appreciate all the concern for our Achille students. Our school is shut down until Wednesday for safety precautions.

“While I will not go into specifics, we have increased security.”

Beene said that the majority of people posting on the parents’ group don’t actually live in the school district, adding that the group itself was not officially connected to either of the local schools.

“Achille Public Schools and administration believe everyone should receive a safe and free education,” he said.

“We have a very talented staff that cares about each and every student. We remain one of the few small Oklahoma schools to have a resource officer and have had for the last several years.”

Earlier this year, leading trans advocate Sarah McBride, who is the Human Rights Campaign’s press secretary, spoke out about how a family’s acceptance of trans children can mean life or death.

In February, a trans teenager was taken out of his parents’ custody because they banned him from transitioning.

An Ohio court ruled that the 17-year-old, who has been diagnosed with depression, anxiety and gender dysphoria, could live with his grandparents.

