Schools Forcing Transgenderism on Children Face Legal Reckoning – Attorney General

Schools in Britain that are forcing transgender policies onto their pupils are running the risk of being sued, the UK Attourney General has warned.

The statement comes as both primary and secondary schools in the country come under fire for militant pro-transgender policies, with one establishment even threatening the parents of a six-year-old boy that their child would be viewed as “transphobic” if he failed to “believe” their “trans” classmate was “gender-fluid”.

“Pupils should not be punished for refusing to adopt a preferred pronoun for a gender-questioning child in a case where the school has decided to affirm a child’s preference,” Braverman wrote in a piece published by The Telegraph.

“A school cannot compel other children to take part in the social-transitioning,” she continued. “Children should also not fear punishment for refusing to take part in activities promoted by trans-lobby groups such as Stonewall or face any disadvantage for questioning what they are being taught on gender identity.”

In particular, Braverman said that schools which failed to provide single-sex toilets, or enabled a child to socially “transition” to a different gender without parental consent could be in breach of their legal duty of care.

Disabled Children Being Bullied as ‘Transphobic’ for Failing to Use Mandated Pronouns https://t.co/u9tGqhS90G

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 4, 2022

While the timing of Braverman’s warnings comes just weeks before a new UK government is due to be formed, and her name is in the running for Home Secretary, the threat of legal consequences could nevertheless impact a UK school system that is becoming increasingly influenced by transgenderism politics.

A parental campaigning group in Scotland warned only last month that children are being castigated by their peers and teachers for failing to fall in step with the trans agenda, even claiming one instance where a disabled child was bullied after failing to use another child’s preferred pronouns.

Meanwhile, another school in the south of England hit the headlines earlier in the year after its principal told the parents of one six-year-old child that he would be viewed as “transphobic” should he fail to “believe” that another pupil was “gender-fluid”.

A letter from the school reportedly claimed that children who showed “feelings of discomfort and inability to trust or connect with someone based on their transgender status,” or who failed to use a student’s “adopted name” would be branded “transphobic” by the school.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

