School Policy: Don’t Tell Parents That Transgender Boys Sleep With The Girls on School Trips

Boys who “identify as” transgender girls must be allowed to share a room with normal girls during overnight school trips, the communications officer for a school district in Maryland told teachers and administrators during a recorded training session.



As American Conservative’s Rod Dreher shows in presenting the training video, Bob Mosier, the communications officer for Anne Arundel County Public Schools, teaches employees in his school district how to handle this deliberate violation of parents’ rights;

So, I’m at an overnight field trip, and I have a student who’s biologically a male, identifies as a female, and we’ve worked with that student and her [sic] family and that student wants to sleep in the dorms, or whatever sleeping arrangements are, with the females. They don’t want to sleep in a room by themselves, they want to sleep with the rest of the females. So, what do we do? The answer is, they sleep with the females. That’s not the easy answer – it’s the right answer. And in some cases it’s going to cause issues because … the private information piece doesn’t allow you to share that with parents of all of the other campers, right?

Regarding Mosier’s instruction not to inform parents if their children will be sleeping with members of the opposite sex while on a field trip, Howard Portnoy at Liberty Unyielding writes, “How convenient! The district sets up its own ad hoc by-laws governing the privacy rights of individual students, then declares that its hands are tied when it comes to involving parents in a decision they have every right to be involved in.”

Mosier teaches that – as difficult as it may be for teachers and administrators to knowingly allow biological boys to sleep with biological girls without informing the girls’ parents – schools must follow these practices in order to be fair to all students.

“If we’re serious about elevating all students and eliminating gaps, then all means all,” Mosier says.

“If you watch the whole video, you’ll notice that Mosier is gruff and no-nonsense in his presentation,” Dreher observes. “He makes it very clear that there will be no deviation from the plan, and if you disagree with it, well, you’re the kind of person who doesn’t want what’s best for kids.”

Dreher notes as well the surreal quality of the other speakers in the video, “talking about things that are really crazy in a normal tone of voice, as if anyone who disagrees is the true nutcase bigot.”

According to one study of the 2010 census, the population of transgender people amounts to one in every 2,400 Americans, or 0.03 percent of the adult population.

President Barack Obama has spent a great deal of his last year in office promoting gender fluidity, particularly through directives about transgender bathrooms. On Friday, the president’s deputies inserted a rule into the Federal Register that prohibits all federal properties and facilities from operating single-sex bathrooms.

However, multiple polls show that Obama’s transgender policy is very unpopular.

This week a federal judge in Texas ruled against Obama’s decree that public schools must allow students and teachers to decide which of the two sexes’ private bathrooms they desire to use at any given moment.

Judge Reed O’Connor said that, in issuing the directive, the Obama administration did not “follow the proper legal procedure,” and further stressed that “the Constitution assigns these policy choices to the appropriate elected and appointed officials.”

In June, more than 60 leaders concerned about the mental health of American children signed onto an open letter that asserts the Obama’s transgender decree for schools is “putting the nation’s children at risk.”

“This controversial and reckless government overreach increases the risk for our children’s safety and privacy in deference to an un-tethered notion of rights,” the signers wrote. “This policy rejects the scientific reality of every person’s biological sex. To force all Americans to comply with such an extreme and faulty premise – that every person’s sex is ‘assigned’ to them, rather than simply identified at birth – is beyond the pale.”

Additionally, a new report by renowned psychiatrists Dr. Paul McHugh and Dr. Lawrence S. Mayer reveals that most children and teens who say they are transgendered change their minds and grow up according to their biological sex.

Dreher warns nevertheless: “Your public school district may not be part of this movement yet. But do not be fooled: it’s coming. Are you ready?”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

