Several people injured after car drives into transgender rights rally

Police have arrested a suspect after someone drove their car into multiple Trans Lives Matter protesters last night.

The rally in St Louis, Missouri, was held after transgender woman Kiwi Herring was shot dead by local police on Tuesday.

The 30-year-old victim became the eighteenth trans woman to be killed in the US this year.

During the march from St Louis’ Transgender Memorial Garden, the protesters walked across an intersection, blocking off traffic in all directions.

Instead of waiting it out, the driver approached with his car, honking and attempting to circumvent the protesters.

People then surrounded the driver and starting banging on their car.

The video clearly shows the driver continuing to move their vehicle through the crowd, despite the protesters standing in front of the car.

As the suspect drove off, two women and a man who had climbed onto the vehicle were thrown off.

They suffered minor injuries and refused treatment, police said.

Driver pushes into protesters in St. Louis street; injuries said to be minor https://t.co/LtsJ4oeONE pic.twitter.com/4hWl7xqZLp
— STLtoday (@stltoday) August 24, 2017


— STLtoday (@stltoday) August 24, 2017


A suspect was arrested and charged with felony fleeing.

Jay-Marie Hill, who posted the video on Facebook, wrote that “a car drove into us peacefully holding vigil in the street 2ft away from me.”



She continued: “Wow. Wow. Everyone is alive. Thank God. #BlackTransLivesMatter”.

The collision came after Heather Heyer, a 32-year-old activist, was killed by a vehicle driven into anti-fascist protesters in Charlottesville, Virginia.

And Herring’s death came less than a week after another trans woman, Gwynevere River Song, was shot dead in Texas.

The 26-year-old was killed following an argument with someone who has not yet been named.

It is believed that they identified as transfeminine non-binary.

The murder of River Song was the 17th known homicide against a transgender person this year, making Herring the 18th.

The list of victims is largely trans women of colour.

Earlier this month, TeeTee Dangerfield was shot outside of an apartment complex in Atlanta.

The murder of Dangerfield came just days after “comedian” Lil’ Duval went on the radio show the Breakfast Club and “joked” about killing trans women.

Duval, real name Roland Powell, said that if he found out somebody was trans after having sex with them, he would kill them.

41-year-old Mesha Caldwell was shot to death in Mississippi in January and no suspects have been arrested as yet.

Jamie Lee Wounded Arrow was a 28-year-old who identified as trans and two spirit. She was found dead at her home in South Dakota in January. Joshua Rayvon LeClaire has been charged with her murder.

JoJo Striker was killed in Ohio in February. The 23-year-old was cherished by friends and family.

Tiara Richmond, also known as KeKe Collier, was shot in Chicago at the age of 24 in February.

31-year-old Chyna Doll Dupree was shot and killed in New Orleans in February. She was a celebrated performer in the community.

Ciara McElveen, 31, was stabbed to death in New Orleans two days after Dupree.

Jaquarrius Holand was 18 when she was shot to death in Monroe, Louisiana in February.

38-year-old Alphonza Watson was shot and killed in Baltimore, Maryland in March. She was described as the “sunshine” of her family.

Chay Reed, 28, was shot to death in April in Miami.

Brenda Bostick was a 59-year-old homeless trans woman who was found with severe injuries in Manhattan. It’s important to note that Bostick may not have identified as trans at the time of their death, according to the family.

Sherrell Faulkner died in May at the age of 46 after being viciously attacked in November in North Carolina. The attacker has not yet been apprehended.

27-year-old Kenne McFadden was found dead in April in the San Antonio River. It’s believed that she was pushed to her death, although police are yet to have made arrests.

Kendra Marie Adams (Josie Berrios) was found in dead in June with severe burns on her body. Michael Davis has been charged with the murder of the 28-year-old.

Ava Le’Ray Barrin was shot and killed in Georgia at just 17 in June.

Ebony Morgan, 28, was shot multiple times in Virginia at the start of July.

Watch the full video below:


