Sex and the City star Cynthia Nixon reveals she has a transgender son

Sex and the City star Cynthia Nixon has revealed that her eldest son is transgender.

The out actress and LGBT activist revealed on social media that her child Samuel Joseph Mozes is a transgender man.

The picture shows Mozes, 21, with his mother at his graduation at the University of Chicago.

Nixon wrote: “I’m so proud of my son Samuel Joseph Mozes (called Seph) who graduated college this month. I salute him and everyone else marking today’s #TransDayofAction. #TDOA.”

She added: “LGBTQ* people have greater visibility and acceptance than ever before, but members of the trans community are at a much higher risk of experiencing violence and discrimination. Today, and every day, we stand with trans New Yorkers!”

Mozes is one of two children Nixon had with schoolteacher Danny Mozes, prior to Nixon coming out and marrying Christine Marinoni.

Nixon and Marinoni had a third child in 2011.

The actress is currently running for Governor of New York as a left-wing challenger to incumbent Democrat Andrew Cuomo.

Although Cuomo has the backing of major LGBT rights advocates in the state, Nixon recently laid into his record on trans issues.



She accused him of fostering an agreement with Republicans and conservative Democrats on the state legislature that has harmed trans rights.

Nixon told The Advocate: “Since our governor took office he has empowered a group of Democratic senators who vote with the Republicans, giving the Republicans the control of the state Senate.

“One of the reasons that I’m running is we need a Democratic governor who is as progressive as New York itself, and who doesn’t just act like a progressive right before a Democratic primary but actually does it all the time.”

Nixon hit out at the alleged arrangement, blaming it for the repeated failure to pass progressive LGBT legislation, including the Gender Expression Non-Discrimination Act, also known as GENDA.

GENDA is the proposed law that would explicitly make discrimination on the basis of gender identity illegal in the state of New York.

Although many parts of New York, including New York City, feature city-wide non-discrimination protections on the basis of gender identity, there is no statewide protection.

Nixon claimed that “a number of Democratic senators have been plucked off and incentivized to vote with Republicans.”

In April, LGBT activists slammed Nixon for her criticism of Cuomo’s record on equal marriage.

In an interview with New York Magazine in April, Nixon took a dig at Cuomo’s record, claiming he moved on the issue in 2011 because “he had a lot of big Republican donors who wanted the marriage issue to go away because they thought it was making the party look bad.”

Those comments were then condemned by LGBT activists who ran the campaign for marriage equality in New York, who defended Governor Cuomo’s record.

