Shooting at transgender club shocks community

A shooting at a transgender club has left one person injured.

The Las Vegas Lounge, one of very few specifically trans clubs in the US, was shot at multiple times in the early hours of February 23.

The attack left one clubgoer with a gunshot wound to the leg.

Police have said that the shooter approached the club on foot and fired at the building from outside.

Jennifer Hallie, general manager of the Lounge, wrote on Facebook that “there was no altercation, there was no interaction whatsoever with the suspect.”

She added: “Unfortunately one of our girls was injured but law enforcement assured us she will make a full recovery.

“We have had many trying times through the years, and though we may bend we will not be broken by this,” she vowed.

“We are still open for business, and are still proud to serve our community.”

However, she told local station KVVU-TV that it was “scary” to see her club – which has served the Las Vegas trans community for 19 years – be the target of a shooting.



Hallie added: “Your gut instinct is that this is a hate crime, but you just don’t know.”

A GoFundMe campaign has been started to help the victim of the attack, Callie Loubee Haywood, to pay her medical expenses.

The page states that Haywood needs “a major surgery to repair the bones in her leg including steel rods, pins and plates.

“Please help us raise as much as we can to help with her hospital bills and living expenses while she recovers from this disgusting cowardly act,” it adds.

Hallie has donated $500, and the community has pitched in after her, raising more than $6,400 so far.

An event at the Lounge also helped, raising $1,100 towards paying for her medical expenses.

And the day after this fundraising event, the club posted on Facebook to assure its supporters that it was standing strong in the wake of the attack.

“We’re always here to provide great service for our wonderful community!” the post read. “Thank you all for your love and support.”

Police have released a video of a suspect.

Watch the video here: 


