Stacey Dash, who told transgender women to ‘pee in the bushes’, running for Congress

Clueless former actress Stacey Dash is planning to run for Congress.

Dash, who starred in the film Clueless, has become notorious in recent years as an outspoken Republican and supporter of Donald Trump.

The actress, who has a history of making offensive comments, is today expected to announce a run for Congress.

According to the Daily Beast, Dash has filed paperwork to run for office this year in California’s 44th district, a heavily-Democrat district that voted 83 percent for Hillary Clinton.

The district is currently represented by Democrat Nanette Barragán.

The decision comes a month after Dash was let go from her post as a Fox News pundit.

In addition to calling for the abolition of black history month, Dash has previously told transgender women to pee in the bushes outside, rather than use public bathrooms.

Ranting about Caitlyn Jenner and transgender rights, Dash said: “[Caitlyn] says she wants to go into the women’s bathroom and she’s a woman now.

“It’s tyranny by the minority. Why do I have to suffer because you can’t decide what you want to be that day? … It’s your body! So, it’s your decision, right? We all make choices.”

“Gin the bushes. I don’t know what to tell you, but I’m not gonna put my child’s life at risk because you want to change a law. So that you can be comfortable with your beliefs — which means I have to change my beliefs and my rights? No.”



Dash has also insisted that it is “propaganda”to say that the Republican Party is opposed to equal marriage.

She said: “That’s just propaganda. It’s not true, you know?

“That’s a certain amount of people, you can’t just throw a blanket over everyone because certain people have one opinion.”

The Republican party platform states: “We believe that marriage, the union of one man and one woman must be upheld as the national standard, a goal to stand for, encourage, and promote through laws governing marriage.”

After reports about her run, Dash tweeted: “Come to my account for the straight news. Formal statements coming.”

She would not be the only celebrity considering a run for office in the Trump era.

Kid Rock last year said he was considering a run for Senate.

The outspoken Republican, real name Robert Ritchie, was reportedly planning to run in the US Senate election in Michigan, seeking to unseat incumbent Democrat Debbie Stabenow.

At a concert in the state, the singer was introduced as “the next Senator of the great state of Michigan, Kid Rock”.

In a four-minute speech, he made time for cheap attacks on LGBT rights.

He said: “And why these days is everything so gay? Gay rights. Transgender this and that. I say let gay folks get married if they want and I’m not even close to a death trap.

“But things shouldn’t be this complicated. And, no, you don’t get to choose, because whatever you have between your legs should determine the bathroom that you use.”

Ritchie now appears to have abandoned his plans to run for office, claiming they were never serious to begin with – though insiders say he was very serious about the bid.

 

