Swarms of mothers attack supermarket for selling transgender children’s book

A number of angry parents have launched an attack against supermarket giant Aldi for stocking a book about transgender children.

Led by “disappointed” mother Kathryn Woolley, the parents have flooded social media accounts of the retailer to chastise its decision to sell the short novel, The Boy in a Dress.

The book is the debut novel of British comedian David Walliams who has been a judge on Britain’s Got Talent.

The book, which is for eight to twelve-year-olds, aims to promote diversity and challenge gender roles by telling the story of a twelve-year-old who likes to wear dresses and the reaction of his family and friends.

Writing on ALDI Australias Facebook page Woolley said that she was “disappointed” by the decision to stock the book, which she claimed promoted “transgenderism” in minors.

She wrote: “Aldi – we are so very disappointed in your decision to stock a book within your store – relating to transgenderism in children!

“We would ask that you reconsider your choice to sell it!

“Family & children must be protected in times where there are those whose agenda is to groom & sexualise them!

“We ask you to have a conscience in this matter!”

Related: The 11 LGBT-inclusive children’s books every parent needs to buy



Wooley’s post sparked a debate, with many supporting her stance.

One person wrote: “As a loyal customer I am extremely disappointed to find that you are actively promoting a book called The Boy in the Dress.”

A different person added: “This is disturbing. ALDI’s concern should be to sell quality products to the customer and provide a good service (which you do).

“However you have now overstepped the line. Your role is not to propagate sexually confusing material to minors.”

Related: Chris Evans’s five-year-old son wore a dress to the theatre and some people aren’t happy

Despite the transphobic comments, a number of people came to the defence of the store and celebrated the decision to stock the book.

One person wrote: “If you don’t like it, don’t buy it… but I for one think it’s great.

“If the “worst” my kids do is dress or behave in ways that don’t conform to gender norms I’ll be a happy mum indeed.

“If these books help a child struggling with their identity find some comfort (whether it my child or yours), I think they’re worth their weight in gold.”

Related: David Walliams reveals: ‘I had gay experiences’



Another added: “I just wanted to say I’ll definitely be grabbing a copy. Keep doing what you’re doing, Aldi!”

“I rarely shop at Aldi but shall make a point of going there this week and hope I can grab a copy of this awesome book!” a third wrote.

