Technology expert destroys Alex Jones’ transgender porn excuses – and reveals he had two videos open

An expert has taken apart InfoWars host Alex Jones’ excuses for having transgender porn on his mobile.

The anti-trans conspiracy theorist was mocked and accused of hypocrisy last week after accidentally revealing his open tabs during a live demonstration of how to use the outlet’s website.

Among the open pages on his iPhone was one that appeared to show a pornographic video titled “Naughty Tbabe Mistress,” which features Australian transgender adult model Marissa Minx.

Two days later, on his show, Jones claimed: “Everyone’s had porn pop up on their phones hundreds of times,” adding that, “I’ve probably had porn menus pop up 500 times on my phone.”

Jones has been banned from a string of social media outlets over his “hate-filled rants” towards LGBT+ people, including trans people, Muslims and immigrants.

In one particularly horrific tirade, Jones called a trans man who has publicly opened up about giving birth “mentally ill.”

Aaron Fors, a US actor with a background in science and technology, who graduated high school six years early, dismantled Jones’ denial piece by piece.

Fors wrote that the porn video was “contained in its own tab,” adding that it was “a rare find indeed to find pop-ups on an iPhone that will either open up a new tab on your iPhone, or redirect you to a porn website.

“This requires some relatively complex programming, and is not tolerated from any legitimate ‘safe for work’ sites.

“We generally find malicious pop-ups on pornography sites, and sites that provide illegal pirated content. News outlets do not allow pornography pop-ups or advertisements on their websites.”

Fors even tracked down the exact video which Jones had open on his phone, explaining that it was hosted on “xvideos.com, a huge porn sharing site that is certainly not known for malicious popups.



“There is only one page with this title. Only one video with this title. It is not an ad, or a pop up, it is a 7:00 minute video of Marissa Minx having sex with a man.”

This casts serious doubt on Jones’ claim that he “was like, looking up some reporter we’re trying to hire today and punched in some number and it popped up porn on my phone.”

The expert proceeded to claim that after careful analysis, he had discovered that two of the tabs open on the InfoWars host’s phone contained trans porn.

“The TWO videos being shown in part on the screen, which I have meticulously matched up with the image shown are BOTH trans porn,” he explained. “They are in a list of other videos ‘like’ the one he is currently watching.”

Fors added: “HE IS ZOOMED IN. So as to better see the videos. There is only [one] way to create this image, and only one way to escape the tab without it zooming out. This is what he has done.

“Oh yeah, and as it turns out, xvideos will not even show you trans porn in your results unless you select ‘shemale’ in lieu of the ‘straight’ or ‘gay’ porn categories.

“In closing… his claim would require him to leave this ‘pop-up’ tab of pornography open on his phone. Yeah, why close that?”

The actor credited Jones with moving him to prove that the alt-right figurehead’s browsing habits were deliberate, writing: “In attempting to bulls**t us he forced me to address him more thoroughly.

“Porn is great. Enjoy. Trans people are great. Enjoy each other. I hate dishonesty, but not nearly so much as I hate bigotry, and his is the most dangerous and destructive sort.”

He added that after Jones’ history of anti-trans rhetoric, “he doesn’t get to enjoy their porn and lie about it.”

“I am happy to provide detailed sources. They’re uhhhh, they’re just all porn,” concluded Fors.

