Teen Who Said There Are Only Two Genders Expelled from School, GoFundMe Shut Down

A Scottish 17-year-old who was suspended for filming his teacher telling him that he could not say in class that there are only two genders has been told he cannot return to his school.

I've set up a new fundraiser page for Murray, I'll do a quick video after work tonight with all the updates and developments.  https://t.co/FTL9MzI2uc #fundly via @Fundly

— I,Hypocrite (@lporiginalg) July 4, 2019

The original story continues below…

The viral footage revealed that the teen had been removed from class for stating that there are only two genders, with the teacher telling him that whilst the boy was entitled to his “opinion”, he could not share it at school because “the authority” and school policy dictated that there are many genders and to assert otherwise was “not acceptable” and tantamount to discrimination.

“I know what you think, and I know what the authority thinks, I know the authority’s point of view is very clear,” the teacher is heard saying.

Murray had been suspended for one week, according to the school on grounds of sharing the footage of his teacher without his consent, later tripled to three weeks. Now, the pupil has been told that he will not be able to return to Mearns Academy to finish his education, the Evening Standard reports.

Teen Who Said There Are Two Genders Suspended from School https://t.co/YTUy3u23qr

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) June 24, 2019

An Aberdeenshire council spokesman told the Evening Standard: “The young man in question has not been permanently excluded from Mearns Academy, but rather at the age of 17, has reached the end of his time in compulsory education.”

“Staff from the school are working hard to ensure that the young man has a positive future placement either in further education or in an area that he chooses,” they added.

so @gofundme has cancelled the campaign and also banned my account. I have not been given any reason other than I violated the terms somehow. All donations were refunded. pic.twitter.com/YJS9iDNWPO

— I,Hypocrite (@lporiginalg) July 3, 2019

The teen told the YouTuber that he was concerned that being barred from his old school could affect him getting into another one, particularly if a prospective new school requires a previous academic reference, saying: “I’m kind of in limbo at the moment. I really don’t know what is going to happen… I’m either going to have to find a new school or go to college… but it’s definitely a big speed bump in my life at the moment.”

“So, GoFundMe has cancelled the campaign and also banned my account. I have not been given any reason other than I violated the terms somehow. All donations were refunded,” I, Hypocrite stated.

Last year, Scotland became the first country in the world “to have LGBTI-inclusive education embedded within the curriculum”.

No Skirts: British Schoolgirls Ordered to Wear ‘Gender Neutral’ Trousers https://t.co/eS8lAismIn

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 1, 2019

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

