Texas AG Joins Parents’ Protest of School Superintendent’s Transgender Policy

Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton joined parents on Monday to protest Fort Worth ISD Superintendent Dr. Kent Paredes Schribner’s student transgender policy. The policy allows students of the opposite sex to use facilities that they “gender identify” with at the moment.

Superintendent Schribner’s actions is just the latest in the government’s thrusting a fluid “gender identity” public policy agenda in schools. Schribner has even instructed teachers to refer to students as “scholars” or “students” instead of as “girls” or “boys.”

The parents and those who were protesting the policy, and calling for the superintendent’s resignation and a school board vote, gathered on the steps of Trimble Tech High School on Monday.

We must protect our children. They deserve a safe place to receive an education. https://t.co/DlQv47pQut

— Ken Paxton (@KenPaxtonTX) May 16, 2016

When speaking, Paxton told the crowd that the parents “have legitimate issues and concerns.”

.@KenPaxtonTX parents “have legitimate issues and concerns” in @FortWorth_ISD. #SafetyIsWorthIt #txlege pic.twitter.com/PueZzZVplQ

— Texas Values (@txvalues) May 16, 2016

Texas Values President Jonathan Saenz tweeted:

@FortWorth_ISD parents say “repeal, resign, reject” new school rules that allow boys n girls bathrooms @KenPaxtonTX pic.twitter.com/UHzRsyjuaw

— Jonathan Saenz (@jonathansaenzTX) May 16, 2016

As reported by Breitbart Texas, Paxton fired off a letter to the president of the Fort Worth school district last week saying he has a “strong concern” that the school district’s “Transgender Student Guidelines” violates parents rights to information. He also said the policies are motivated by a misguided view of federal law.

Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick called for the resignation of Kent P. Schribner on Friday after the Fort Worth ISD superintendent unilaterally enacted the transgender policies without input from school district parents, community members, and taxpayers, as reported by Breitbart Texas.

Fort Worth ISD’s policy was announced just days before an announcement by the White House on May 13. As reported by Breitbart Texas, President Obama’s crusade to push fluid “gender identity” in schools, caused another Texas superintendent to respond, “I got news for President Barack Obama. He ain’t my president and he can’t tell me what to do. That letter is going straight to the paper shredder.”

The implication from the federal government for schools that do not comply with the federal policy – risk losing federal funding and lawsuits.

I announced today that Texas is fighting this. Obama can’t rewrite the Civil Rights Act. He’s not a King. #tcot https://t.co/vDgfQPZXjR

— Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) May 13, 2016

Abbott later added:

The Founders gave us a fix for this transgender mixup. It’s a Convention of States under Article V. #tcot#PJNEThttps://t.co/nxXfeNa1A4

— Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) May 15, 2016

As reported in January by Breitbart Texas, Abbott asked Texas to join other states in calling for an Article V Convention of the States to write new amendments to the U.S. Constitution. He says his 100-page “Texas Plan” “fixes this government run amok” and “returns lawmaking to the process enshrined in the Constitution.” Abbott’s Texas Plan is attached to the Breitbart Texas article and discusses in detail the history of, and the problem with, an unchecked balance of power, and with faceless bureaucrats making rules and public policy.

The Attorney General of Texas, Ken Paxton, also reacted strongly to the Obama administration’s announcement last week. In a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas, Paxton warned, “Once again, the Obama Administration has overstepped its constitutional bounds to meddle in the affairs of state and local government. Today’s announcement seeking to unilaterally redefine and expand federal law must be challenged. If President Obama thinks he can bully Texas schools into allowing men to have open access to girls in bathrooms, he better prepare for yet another legal fight.”

U.S. Attorney General Janet Lynch argued that anyone’s personal choice of  male or female “gender identity,” is more important than others’ right to sexual privacy in public bathrooms or school locker rooms, as reported by Breitbart News. 

The Justice Department filed a lawsuit on May 9 in federal court in North Carolina asking that the state be declared to be violating the 1964 Civil Rights Act by enacting a sexual privacy bill that delineates when people can use bathrooms of the other sex. Governor Pat McCrory called the litigation “massive executive branch overreach.” He asked the U.S. Congress to intercede.

Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

