The Wrap: GLAAD Has Turned Into One of Hollywood's Biggest Bullies

GLAAD’s latest  anti-free speech rampage is so misguided that  for what might be the first time ever, they’ve actually forced actress Susan Sarandon over to the correct side of an issue:


Sarandon is adamant [GLAAD’s] views on political correctness are becoming too extreme – likening them to animal-rights crusaders People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA).

When quizzed about the controversy by the New York Daily News, she replied, “What should they (Glee) have said? (GLAAD is) getting like PETA – way out of control.”

Careful Susan, you might end up in one of GLAAD’s Gay Re-Education Camps  along with the producers of   “Jersey Shore.”




Thankfully, even more of Hollywood’s pushing back though Daniel Frankel’s story in “The Wrap,” which is boldly titled “Is GLAAD Hollywood’s Latest Bully?” — and I say boldly in all sincerity since the latest left-wing cause du jour is anti-gay bullying and the throwing of that word right back in GLAAD’s face isn’t by accident, nor is it the usual timid approach left-wing special interest groups have become accustomed to in the press.  

In a few short weeks, the organization designed to protect the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender community — GLAAD — has turned into one of the biggest bullies in Hollywood.

The Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation has loudly taken three big media companies to task in the past few weeks over words used in films and TV shows. …

“GLAAD is much better served when they work with us instead of coming out and hitting us in the jaw in front of everybody,” said one fearful Hollywood publicist.

A network official, meanwhile, noted that while GLAAD issued a statement hammering away at one of his series for its word selection, it wasn’t until the fourth paragraph that the advocacy group explained what was wrong with the term the show used.

“It seemed more about what we did wrong than educating us,” he noted.

The key words below  in bold are my emphasis:


But GLAAD has only gotten louder since that time under the leadership of  [president Jarrett] Barrios.

In early October, the New York-based organization issued a “call to action,” asking its members to ramp up their tweets and petition Universal and [director Ron] Howard to remove the scene from “The Dilemma” in which star Vince Vaughn, who plays a designer of internal combustion engines, calls electric cars “gay.”

The gag has since been removed by Universal from the trailer, but Howard — who had final cut — refused to pull it from the film.

He told the L.A. Times, “I don’t strip my films of everything that I might personally find inappropriate. It is a slight moment in ‘The Dilemma’ meant to demonstrate an aspect of our lead character’s personality, and we never expected it to represent our intentions or the point of view of the movie or those of us who made it.”

GLAAD deputy director of media programs Herndon Graddick said, “The notion that GLAAD is able to bully around Hollywood is just not realistic.”

But GLAAD can talk tough.

“This is the new GLAAD,” said Barrios, acknowledging a more aggressive campaign to stamp out what it feels is harmful language.

During a tense back-and-forth with Michael Moses amid the recent “Dilemma” kerfuffle, Graddick conceded telling the  Universal marketing co-president,  “If you do that, we’re going to come at you completely.”

Stamp out…

Remove…

Come at you completely…



In many ways, leftist Hollywood created this monster. As a general rule, you  can never appease a bully, most especially an ideological bully like GLAAD. Their goal here is not a seat at the table, their goal is ideological purity, and once you give into them they smell your weakness and never stop coming at you. The film community is currently having the same problem with a different tiger they currently hold by the tail known as CAIR — a group so radically dangerous they’re now  successfully  suing to make unconstitutional the banning of unconstitutional Sharia laws.

How many stories has Hollywood refused to tell fearing either GLAAD or CAIR?

What has to be somewhat discouraging for GLAAD is that America is  waking up to the fact that they’re not about  “gay” issues, they’re about  Leftist issues. The Left is always happy to  hijack whatever cause might help them to  create ideological conformity, this just happens to be the  latest one. And it won’t last much longer. 31% of gay Americans  who voted in  this month’s  midterm elections voted Republican.

Nope, this isn’t a gay thing, it’s a leftist thing. Any day of the week, I’d  trade all the  Patrick Goldsteins  on the planet for just one  GayPatriot — because that would be good for America.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

