This model compared his ‘misunderstood’ face tattoo to being transgender. Yes, really

A model is being rightly dragged online after he compared getting a face tattoo to being transgender.

Presley Gerber, who is the son of Cindy Crawford and Rande Gerber, has gotten a fair bit of hate since sharing a photo of his new face tattoo, which reads “misunderstood”.

The model took to Instagram stories to respond to the hate, but managed to totally miss the mark and draw even more criticism when he compared his tattoo to being trans.

“Most and a lot of people can get face lifts, change genders, lip injections, etc, and it’s offensive to say anything in today’s day in [sic] age but I get a little face tattoo and now people love to hate me,” he said, according to The Independent.

The 20-year-old has since deleted his posts from Instagram in the face of backlash.

Most and a lot of people can get face lifts, change genders, lip injections, etc and it’s offensive to say anything in today’s day in [sic] age but I get a little face tattoo and now people love to hate me.

Needless to say, Gerber has faced significant backlash for the post. Perez Hilton mocked the star and begged Cindy Crawford to take him in hand.

Presley Gerber: “Most and a lot of people can get a face lifts, change genders, lip injections, etc & it’s offensive to say anything in today’s day in age but I get a little face tattoo and now people love to hate me.” Cindy Crawford, come get your son!!! https://t.co/P6m5FoK15z
— Perez Hilton (@PerezHilton) March 12, 2020

— Perez Hilton (@PerezHilton) March 12, 2020



And here’s Presley Gerber comparing getting a “misunderstood” face tattoo to being transgender pic.twitter.com/r1OZmf0q9Y
— Hunter Reis (@hunterreis) March 12, 2020

— Hunter Reis (@hunterreis) March 12, 2020



He was also roundly criticised on Instagram for the insensitive comment. One user wrote: “There is no comparison, attempting to do so was unacceptable.”

Presley Gerber has since only posted two photos on his newly cleared Instagram account, and fans are speculating that he could be taking a break from social media.

Speaking on Instagram stories in February, Gerber defended his decision to get the word “misunderstood” tattooed on his face.

“You don’t know how I feel, you’re not in my head. What’s the meaning of the misunderstood tattoo is I don’t feel very understood, I guess.

“I just wanted to come on here and be like, if anyone has s*** to say to me about this or anything else, or my family or how I grew up or anything, I will give you my address, I promise, and you can come say it to my face.”

