This make-up artist is visiting transgender prisoners to offer make-up lessons

A make-up artist who has specialised in a line of trans-inclusive make-up has been visiting trans prisoners in the UK to give them make-up lessons.

Jessica Blackler was contacted by a group of trans make-up artists at Parc Prison in South Wales, decided to offer make-up lessons to the prisoners when she discovered the difficulties the inmates experienced in prison.

As items such as eyeliner and mirrors can be constituted as weapons in a prison environment, it is difficult for women in a prison to access make-up.

And for those who may be transitioning or denied hormonal treatments in prison, the struggle to represent their identity can be incredibly troublesome.

As Blackler create a make-up collection with trans and gender inclusivity in mind, she decided that she would bring her skills to the prison and tutor trans women on honing their make-up skills.

“The trans women aren’t all kept together on one ward, so prison can be a very isolating experience for them- more so than for cisgender prisoners- and they often face violence and discrimination because of their gender identity from the other inmates,” said Blackley.

“This was a nice way to bring all the trans women together for an hour or two to have some bonding girly time.”

 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rOkujlUfvXI

The artist has said that the visits have allowed her to celebrate some key moments and milestones in these women’s lives.

During her last visit, she applied make-up to a prisoner who was about to see her mother for the first time in years.

Trans prisoners are known to struggle significantly more than their cis counterparts in prison.



2016 saw a record number of trans prisoners die by suicide.

As recently as last month, a trans prisoner in the UK went on a hunger strike over their treatment in prison.

Blackler created her line JECCA MAKEUP after many trans women reported to her that traditional makeup didn’t meet their needs.

Jessica is a Stonewall ambassador, and will donate 5% of the profits made from her line to the charity.

Her Crowdfunder to expand her line can be found here.

 

