TikTok Allows Topless Display by Women if They Say They Are Men

A woman has been censored by TikTok after duplicating a viral trend of topless dancing by women who say they are men.

The original video features two shirtless women who say they are transgender, who do not appear to have completed their physical transitions, dancing side by side on a split-screen. The user on the right used the hashtags #bodypositivity #moscowdance, and #transpositivity in the original post. The other user posted a side-by-side dancing to the same song, promoting the video with the hashtags #transmasc, #lgbt, #hethey, #trans, and #transpositivity:

The woman appealed the decision, telling the platform that she was “dueting this video doing the exact same thing as the others.”

She took to social media to clarify that she is “not transphobic” but asked her 56,000 Twitter followers, “How the hell can a BORN WOMAN be allowed to flaunt their tits (which are bigger than mine) on the internet just because they’re dressed as a man and I can’t post my tits on the same platform?”

The complaint highlights the major discrepancies in the radical transgender movement, which effectively erases women.

The issue of TikTok censorship stems primarily from the fact that there is no biological difference between the videos.

She described the event as “obvious discrimination against all women” and added that it is a “mockery of the equal rights movement where a small group of people, or people claiming to be in that group, are granted freedoms simply because they’re a popular political movement.”

“What happened to just 5 years ago when we can post whatever we want? Now a bikini photo will even get banned but a whole biological woman claiming they are now a man can show their breasts on social media?” she asked, emphasizing that she is “not targeting the LGBTQ community” but rather standing up for women.

TikTok is not the only social media platform to promote the radical transgender movement. Last week, Twitter suspended Focus on the Family’s The Daily Citizen for “hateful” content. The issue centered around a tweet that simply stated the biological sex of Dr. Rachel Levine, President Biden’s nominee for assistant secretary of health for the Department of Health and Human Services.

“It seems, according to Twitter, simply acknowledging biological fact is now ‘hateful,'” the organization’s president, Jim Daly, said in a post announcing the censorship.

Biden’s order said that Title XI, the federal statute that prohibits discrimination against women because of their biological sex at schools that receive federal funding, now also applies to discriminating against individuals for their “gender identity.”

“That’s a horrific step backwards for women athletes,” Rep. Mo Brooks (R-GA) said during a Wednesday appearance on Breitbart News Daily. 



“That’s science denial policy that Joe Biden has foisted on the American public,” he added. “That ought to garnering a lot of attention.”

FACT ONE: Trans girls are girls. pic.twitter.com/R5OWNl5ooI

— ACLU (@ACLU) February 3, 2021

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

