Tinder introduces genderfluid, transgender-inclusive options

Tinder has today launched their new trans-inclusive feature on their app, meaning users can identify as genders other than male and female.

The change comes after many transgender users said their accounts were being suspended from the dating app after complaints from other users.

Now, along with the man and woman options, you can also choose trans, trans man, trans woman and transgender. Users also have the option not to display their gender on their profile.

Crimes involving dating apps increase sevenfold in two years

“No one will ever be banned from Tinder because of their gender. We haven’t had the right tools to serve our diverse community in the past, but that changes today,” a statement on Tinder’s website said.

“We know that we haven’t been perfect in the past,” the statement continued before inviting people that had wrongfully been removed in the past back to the platform.



 

In June, Tinder CEO Sean Rad confirmed the dating app would roll out changes so that people won’t have to identify as only ‘male’ or ‘female’.

Trans people have previously reported negative experiences on the app – with trans groups warning last year that people are frequently banned from the app or barraged with abuse, after being matched with people who took exception to them.

The app relies on community reports – meaning if enough people report a profile, it is likely to be banned before a review is possible.

Newsnight: Tinder allows straight people ‘to behave like gay men’

At the time, Tinder said it would work on filters to specify more gender identities than just ‘male’ and ‘female’ – which may help stop people being matched up with trans people who don’t want to be.

“For a long time we haven’t done enough to give them [trans people a good experience,” Rad said in June. “It’s harder for them to get what they are looking for. We have to modify our experience to address that.”

“It’s not only good for the Tinder community, but it’s the right thing to do for the world.”

