Transgender Satanist anarchist wins Republican county sheriff nomination on a ‘f**k the police’ platform

A transgender Satanist anarchist, whose campaign slogan was “f**k the police”, has secured the Republican nomination for county sheriff in New Hampshire.

Aria DiMezzo was shocked when she won the GOP primary for county sheriff in Cheshire County, New Hampshire, with thousands of Republican votes.

DiMezzo, founder of the Reformed Satanic Church, previously ran for county sheriff in 2018 as a Libertarian candidate.

But when she found out that the previous Republican nominee was no longer running, she joined the Republican party with two days to spare before the candidate deadline.

Explaining her surprising victory in a blog post, DiMezzo wrote: “I went into it expecting that I would lose the primary to a write-in candidate, because I didn’t think that so many voters were just… completely and totally oblivious about who they are voting for.

“Because the fact is that you didn’t bother. You trusted the system. You trusted the establishment. You trusted the party. You felt safe.

“You were sure that there must be some mechanisms in place to prevent from occurring exactly what just occurred.

“Your anger is misplaced if you direct it at me. Please listen. Your anger is with the system that has lied to you. Your anger is with the system that convinced you to believe in it, trust in it, and have faith in it, when it is completely and utterly broken.

“More than 4,000 people went into the voting booth on September 8 this week, and they all filled in the circle by my name despite knowing absolutely nothing about the person they were nominating to the most powerful law enforcement position in the county.

“That’s a level of recklessness of which any decent human being should be ashamed.”

She added: “I’m running for sheriff because I oppose that very system, and the sheriff has the most hands-on ability in Cheshire County to oppose that system.

“The system that let you down by allowing me – the freaking transsexual Satanist anarchist – be your sheriff candidate is the same system I’m attacking.

“I’m sorry, and I know it hurts to hear, but that system is a lie. The entire thing is a lie. It’s broken from beginning to end, and my existence as your sheriff candidate is merely how this reality was thrown into your face.”

Look, if you turn in your ballot without even realizing that you’ve just voted for a libertarian anarchist from the Reformed Satanic Church, that’s on you, mate. Just because she was running for your party’s nomination didn’t mean you had to vote for her.
— Ron Hogan (@RonHogan) September 17, 2020

— Ron Hogan (@RonHogan) September 17, 2020



According to her website, if DiMezzo is elected as sheriff she will focus her efforts on never prosecuting crimes without victims.

“When I say ‘f**k the police’, I mean exactly that,” she wrote. “F**k what the police are. But I applaud what police are supposed to be. They’re supposed to serve and protect us, but rarely is this the case.”

She continued: “I want my deputies to respond to crimes where there are actual victims. Let’s be clear on that. If there is an actual victim, then you should have someone to turn to that can help.

“The anarchist in me knows that there are better ways of doing this than the state, but we don’t have time for that in an era where police officers are kneeling on people’s throats for nine minutes.”

She continued: “I don’t hate the police. I want to inspire and motivate police officers to be what they truly desire to be. I want them to go home at night in pride, knowing that they have had an impact in making the world a better place. Extortion and kidnapping don’t make the world a better place, and they know that.”

DiMezzo will face her Democratic opponent, the five-term incumbent Eli Rivera, on November 3.

 

 

