Transgender woman funded transformation with thousands of donations from online fans

A transgender woman has been showered with money and gifts by online fans after sharing photos of her transition. 

Lowissa Jai, 33, started sharing details of her transition online after moving to London as a teen.

She soon gained a strong following from fans.

Jai has received more than £150,000 from online supporters to fund her transition, cosmetic surgery and a new luxury lifestyle. 

The support came as something of a shock – after a childhood of abuse and bullying from other kids.

Lowissa said: “At school, I knew I was different to the other boys. 

“One of my first memories is sneaking into my mum’s bedroom to try her red lipstick.

“Unlike my older brother, I didn’t want to play with trucks and dinosaurs. 

“I just wanted to wear dresses and join in with the girls in the playground.

“Thankfully, my parents were always incredibly supportive. But kids weren’t so kind, and I was bullied mercilessly.

“I told my parents that I wanted to have a sex change. 

“They weren’t surprised at all, as they’d always known that I was different.”

She underwent gender re-assignment surgery on the NHS, giving her the confidence to be more open about her identity.

She used the new found confidence to post updates in transgender chatrooms and other online platforms. 

A legion of fans soon developed, many with deep pockets, according to the Daily Mail.

“I’d chat to guys on webcam, or swap pictures. 

“It was a good way for me to build my confidence.

“Then one day, a man asked if he could buy me a gift. 

“I laughed, and asked for a pair of high heels. 

“I never thought he’d keep his word, but he did.

“After that, I got lots of men offering to give me money or buy me expensive gifts. 

“I never asked, but they were more than willing to provide.

“I soon had thousands of pounds, so I booked myself in for a nose job to make my appearance more feminine.”

The 33-year-old has now largely completed her transition thanks to the generosity.

She has even been left with £50,000 for holidays and new clothes. 

Jai said: “I love what I do, and it makes me feel amazing to know that I’m helping others get the support that I was lucky enough to have myself.

“I still occasionally chat to men online if I fancy a nice holiday or a spot of Botox, but these days I’m too busy helping others.

“I’m grateful to my admirers for helping me become the woman I was always supposed to be. 

“£100K might sound like a lot, but to me it was worth every penny.”

