Transgender Labour candidate Emily Brothers bids for Sadiq Khan’s Parliamentary seat

Transgender Labour activist Emily Brothers has applied to stand as a candidate in Tooting – the seat vacated by the new Mayor of London.

Labour’s Sadiq Khan stood down as Member of Parliament for Tooting this week as he took up the role of Mayor of London, with the local party holding an internal selection contest ahead of a by-election next month.

Blind transgender Labour activist Emily Brothers confirmed in a statement to PinkNews that she had applied to become the party’s candidate for the seat – which has only ever elected Labour MPs.

The activist was born with Aniridia, causing her blindness and hearing difficulties. She has been a prominent campaigner for disability rights, and previously stood for the Labour Party in Sutton and Cheam.

Ms Brothers said: “I would be honoured to represent people in Tooting, picking up the baton from Sadiq Khan’s achievements.

“I love the diversity of South West London, so really keen to help secure positive change for all local residents.

“I’m very worried by the impact Tory austerity is having on hard working families in Tooting, particularly those disadvantaged because of their disability or older age.

“I want change, to turn people’s anguish into aspiration, by contributing to Labour’s fight back.

She added: “I can make a difference – having a track record in campaigning for equality and with personal experience of disability and going through gender transition.

“That demonstrates resilience – the kind of tenacity needed for this By-Election challenge and then holding the Tory Government to account so all Tooting residents are safe, better off and their housing and travel is more affordable.

“I want to reach out to everyone in Tooting, so we can build a better future together. That means focusing on improving people’s living standards, creating more opportunity in education and employment, providing effective public services and housing.”

