Transgender YouTuber Gigi Gorgeous’ new video angers fans

Transgender YouTuber Gigi Gorgeous uploaded a video yesterday about being “broke” and “homeless” for a night – and the internet is mad about it.

The 25-year-old fashion and beauty vlogger had titled the clip ‘When I Was Homeless and Broke In LA (True Story)’, which you can watch in full below.

Beginning the video with a disclaimer that it’s “not clickbait”, Gigi went on to explain her recent experience with being “homeless”.

“Bitch was homeless, with absolutely no money,” she said in the video.

“I almost got killed,” she said.

She brought her sister Tiffany Namtu into the video with her, where they explained how they checked into a hotel in LA and were told that Gigi’s manager would pay for their accommodation.

But the pair were surprised when they were suddenly told to sleep on the sofa because her manager had brought someone to the hotel with him.

“We were on the couch, we were like ‘this is so f**king uncomfortable, we need to leave,” Gigi said in the video.

Unsatisfied with the arrangement, they decided to book another hotel.

“At the time, we were both a little poor,” said Tiffany. “I just brought spending money because I thought I was going to be staying at this free place”.

Gigi said they found a different hotel to stay at for the remaining four nights, saying they were “compromising” and “downsizing” but it was “gonna be cute”.



They began hearing strange noises during their last night there.

This prompted the women to flee the hotel early, after a lax response from the front desk.

They walked back to Gigi’s manager’s apartment, Gigi claiming that at this point she had no money in her account.

“That was a full homeless moment,” she said.

After mistakenly being denied access to her manager’s apartment, Gigi and Tiffany decided to wait around the back of the apartment – but no one came for them.

The pair ended up falling asleep in the alleyway by the apartment complex until the next morning.

Gigi called it a “full-on homeless night in LA”, claiming that they “slept on cement”.

Despite the less-than-ideal experience, the internet didn’t like Gigi’s blasé use of the word ‘homeless’ – and they made their opinions known.

Many fans were outraged by Gigi’s complaints, calling her ‘obnoxious’ and ‘disrespectful’.

One commenter said: “Gigi needs to look up what ‘homeless’ and ‘broke’ really means……..”

While another criticised the YouTube star for being “extremely ignorant.”

Watch Gigi’s video here:



