Transgender people face record high attacks by children in Scotland

Transgender people living in Scotland are facing record high attacks carried out by children.

A report on hate crime in Scotland revealed that in the last two years, no children were charged with offences.

However, now the number of under 18s facing criminal charges for hate attacks against trans people revealed that young defendants make up 10 percent of hate attacks carried out against trans people. 

The report also found that reported crime against trans people had increased by a third since last year, from 30 reported attacks in 2015/16 to 40 reported attacks in 2016/17. 

The “alarming” figures suggest that young transgender people are being targeted by their peers. 

The findings of the report have been deemed “deeply troubling” by LGBT activists in the country. 

Monica Lennon, the inequalities spokesperson for Scottish Labour and MSP said that the figures “should concern us all”.

Lennon said: “No one should face violence because of their gender identity. It is particularly concerning to see such a sharp rise in attacks on transgender people among children and young people.

“Clearly there are underlying issues here about education and inequality that need to be addressed.”

It comes after the Scottish government announced a review of LGBT equality in schools after activists from Time for Inclusive Education (TIE) put forward proposals to tackle bullying of marginalised sexualities and genders. 

Jordan Daly, who headed up TIE, said that the rise in transphobic crime prove that Scotland has a long way to go before achieving equality. 



“These figures are alarming and further highlight that we all have a lot of work to do to ensure that every transgender young person in Scotland is safe, supported and free to be who they are.

“That there has been such a comparable increase in the prevalence of hate crimes towards the transgender community is indicative of the stark reality that, as a nation, we are not as enlightened or progressive on LGBTI issues as we are often led to believe.”

A spokesperson for the Scottish government added that they would now consider passing new policies to combat transphobia. 

“We have also established the LGBTI inclusive education working group to examine how the education experience for LGBTI young people in Scotland can be improved.

“The group will consider whether legislation is required for schools to be proactive in tackling homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, as well as recording specific incidents of homophobic, biphobic and transphobic bullying in schools.”

