Trans duo Zachs & Krieg to perform single live online for Transgender Day of Remembrance

Stockholm-based transgender musical duo Zachs and Krieg are to offer a performance of their single, released in support of the Transgender Day of Remembrance, this evening in a live feed, as well as listing the list of murdered trans people from the past twelve months.

TDoR first started in 1998, following the murder of Rita Hester, a transgender African American woman in Massachusetts.

It takes place every 20th November in more than 185 cities throughout the world to memorialise those trans people who have been killed as a result of hatred and transphobia.

This year, Maxwell Zachs and Josephine Krieg released a single written and recorded speciﬁcally for TDoR.

This year Rfsl Stockholm in conjunction with the ‘Keeping You Alive’ Project by musical duo Zachs and Krieg will broadcast their Memorial Ceremony live on the internet so that anyone with with access to the internet can join them as they both showcase Transgender performers and read the list of names belonging to the trans people who have been murdered in the previous twelve months.

The list is so long that half an hour is set aside to complete the reading.

A statement from the duo reads: “Out of all the days in the year Transgender Day of the Remembrance is the day we must reach out and be together. It is the day when our grief and our hope is at its strongest- two things that ought to be shared. For fifteen years Trans people and their allies have spent a few hours together on this day to remember, to share, and to draw strength from each other in the face of often brutal and overwhelming violence and indifference.

“Still we must recognise the privileges we have in being able to be together publicly, there are many who cannot do so, who must hide, who must be invisible in order to survive. Today we stand for them too.”

The live feed can be viewed here. The feed will become active at 7pm Swedish time (GMT +1).

The song, ‘Keeping You Alive’, is available to buy (including charitable donation to two Transgender charities) here:
iTunes: https://tinyurl.com/pj69mkv
Amazon MP3: https://tinyurl.com/oe3hzg8
Amazon USA: https://tinyurl.com/mmzyp48

Maxwell Zachs is well known for his television role on Channel 4′s series ‘My Transsexual Summer,’ and has become one of the UK’s most recognisable transgender people.

Josephine Krieg has been performing and producing stage shows internationally for over a decade, and has regularly lectured on trans and gender/sexualities, and been published both as a creative writer and an academic scholar.

