Transgender Child Rapist Freed Despite Attacking Prison Guards After They Took Her Shaving Razors

Marcia Walker, a male-to-female transgender child rapist in one of Britain’s maximum-security prisons has been freed despite admitting to attacking guards after they took her razors, preventing Walker from shaving.

The Crown Court in Durham heard that Walker spat at the officers, declaring that “I have COVID,” according to The Telegraph.

Walker claimed that by taking away the ability to shave, the guards had contributed to feelings of gender dysphoria, saying: “They cannot take my razors from me.”

Mr Roachford, in a statement given to the court, characterised Walker as “a white, transgender inmate legally recognised as a female”.

“In my role as custody manager, I should not expect threats to kill me. Marcia has a history of making threats,” he said

In defence of Walker, barrister Fiona Lamb said: “The defendant has had quite an unpleasant experience being in custody. I’m sure no one enjoys it, but because of the defendant’s personal circumstances it has been very difficult for her.”

UK: Violent Transgender Convict Sent to Women’s Prison After Brutal Knife Attack  https://t.co/qbCIfPWlko

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) August 10, 2018

Judge Singh acknowledged that he had “real concerns” over releasing the child rapist, but said that he will take “a chance” on Walker, given the issues of being imprisoned in a male facility.

Walker was first jailed in 2003 for the rapes of two underage girls, including a four-year-old. Walker was also convicted on multiple counts of producing and distributing indecent photographs of children.

Walker was jailed again in 2012 for making a bomb threat against then-Home Secretary Theresa May and made another bomb threat in 2017 against the Long Lartin prison where the rapist was incarcerated at the time.

In 2019, the UK opened its first transgender prisoner wing in a women’s prison in Downview. The move came after a series of sexual assaults against female prisoners from biological male inmates who identified as women.

A 2017 report claimed that nearly half of male-to-female transgender inmates were convicted sex offenders.

‘Allegedly Transgender’ Prisoner Gets Life After Raping Two Women, Sexually Assaulting Inmates in Female Jail  https://t.co/S3ku109jB5

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 11, 2018

Follow Kurt Zindulka on Twitter here @KurtZindulka

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

