Transgender: Dictionary.com Slashes Women

Dictionary.com echoed the radical transgender agenda on Thursday, warning social media users to “Beware the TERF” — an acronym for “trans-exclusionary radical feminist” — and slashing a line thorough the universal symbol for women.

Beware the TERF. https://t.co/n5eHIUJr7B

— Dictionary.com (@Dictionarycom) August 6, 2020

They've changed the crossed-out female logo.

Too late, you awful misogynists, too late. pic.twitter.com/SXCrdQ4E4e

— Vulvamort (@HairyLeggdHarpy) August 7, 2020

The term has been used by transgender activists to refer to Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, who made waves recently for noting that only women can menstruate:

‘People who menstruate.’ I’m sure there used to be a word for those people. Someone help me out. Wumben? Wimpund? Woomud? 

Opinion: Creating a more equal post-COVID-19 world for people who menstruate https://t.co/cVpZxG7gaA

— J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) June 6, 2020

She followed up after receiving a wave of backlash from fans and trans activists, warning that radical transgender ideology will effectively erase women:

If sex isn’t real, there’s no same-sex attraction. If sex isn’t real, the lived reality of women globally is erased. I know and love trans people, but erasing the concept of sex removes the ability of many to meaningfully discuss their lives. It isn’t hate to speak the truth.

— J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) June 6, 2020

“This ideology should not be elevated in the press. When reporting on fringe groups and hate groups, instead of calling them TERFs or gender critical feminists, use language like transphobic, anti-trans, etc,” the style guide states.

“Avoid referring to anyone as a feminist when they are spreading anti-trans hate,” it adds.

Like Dictionary.com, Merriam-Webster dictionary has also made substantial efforts to effectively erase the reality of biological females in order to satisfy social justice warriors, altering the definition of “trans woman” to “woman who was identified as male at birth.”

CNN also went to bat for the transgender movement last month, failing to use the words “women,” “woman,” “female,” or “females” in a story focusing on the American Cancer Society’s updated recommendation that women undergo cervical cancer screenings at age 25 rather than 21. Instead, CNN used the phrase “individuals with a cervix”:

Individuals with a cervix are now recommended to start cervical cancers screening at 25 and continue through age 65, with HPV testing every five years as the preferred method of testing, according to a new guideline released by the American Cancer Society https://t.co/gUhYdIIx69

— CNN (@CNN) July 30, 2020

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

