Transgender man gives birth to baby girl after surprise pregnancy

A transgender man in Iceland has given birth to a baby girl – after getting pregnant partway through his transition.

19-year-old Henrý Steinn had started living as male when he found out he was pregnant via his boyfriend Doddi.

Speaking to Gay Iceland, the teen explained that the news came months after he began transitioning – and just weeks before he was set to start taking testosterone.

He said: “I was well into the consultation and was living as a man but was about one or two months away from starting the hormone treatment when I found out I was pregnant.


“It would probably have been less likely for me to fall pregnant after that, but not impossible.”

The teen made the brave decision to hold off on gender hormone treatment that could impact the baby – continuing to live as male throughout the pregnancy.

Mr Steinn continued: “It was a bit of a shock when I started suspecting it, but very soon I started seeing it as an opportunity to have my own baby.

“I felt a little bit nervous about telling my consultants about the pregnancy but they were very supportive, in fact, my psychiatrist had encouraged me to start thinking about whether I wanted to have a family, and how.”

It’s not the first time that a trans man was shocked to discover that he is pregnant. American Kayden Coleman thought that he was just overweight.

Mr Steinn added that he experienced very few issues with health care staff throughout his pregnancy, noting that while “the whole lingo is obviously aimed a woman”, people were sympathetic to his situation.

He gave birth to a healthy baby girl on April 13 via a C-section, after 26 hours of labour, though the new parents are keeping the little girl’s name secret for now.

Mr Steinn added that he plans on breastfeeding his daughter, explaining: “I’m breastfeeding and will do so until she and I have had enough, but I expect to resume the consultation for the transition as soon as possible.”

Last year, trans man AJ Kearns decided to pause hormone treatment to have a baby.

Back in 2010, trans man Thomas Beatie became pregnant for the third time.



