Transgender Couple Gives Birth and Makes History

A transgender man has birthed a child after conceiving the baby with his transgender wife.

The couple have made history, reports MSN because they are the first transgender couple in South America to have a child born to them. Neither one of them has had gender reassignment surgery, according to the BBC.

“We are the same as other families. Even though we might not have the same rights, we are the same,” Machado said to the BBC. Diane said, “We don’t have a name yet, or rather we do, we are just waiting to announce it.” The BBC reported that “the choice will be controversial and she and her partner want to wait until everything has calmed down.” The six-week-old baby is now playfully referred to as “Caraote” or “the snail.”

Pride Week is this week in Guayaquil, the largest city in Ecuador and the couple is the most high-profile transgender couple in South America, reports the BBC. Diana is an activist with the LGBT organization, Silueta X and the offices are monitored by closed circuit television for safety. She ran for congress in Ecuador in 2013 but did not win. She is thinking about running again in 2017.

Breitbart News reported that Washington State schools are pushing “gender fluid” ideology on children in kindergarten through grade 12, and singers and Hollywood actors are pushing “gender fluidity.” Canadians who criticize transgender or “gender fluidity” were in danger of facing up to two years in jail, reported Breitbart News.

Breitbart Texas reported that Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton is leading a 13-state coalition to fight the Obama Administration’s mandate requiring public schools to allow transgender or gender fluid students to use the bathroom of their choice. The AG was successful in obtaining a preliminary injunction against the enforcement of President Obama’s policy just as schools were starting in the fall.

Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

