Transgender non-binary couple announce pregnancy with cute photo

A transgender and non-binary couple have announced they are pregnant in a cute post on social media.

Reuben and Jay, from Brighton, had started a GoFundMe in April 2018 to raise the necessary funds for fertility treatment.

The couple have now announced Reuben is pregnant after undergoing two IUI (intrauterine insemination) attempts.

Jay wrote on Twitter: “So… We’ve been keeping a little secret.

“IUI round 2 was a huge success! My boyfriend is pregnant!”

So… We’ve been keeping a little secret
IUI round 2 was a huge success!
My boyfriend is pregnant! #transisbeautiful #12weekscan #transcrowdfund pic.twitter.com/JJ14nE86Kj
— jay jackson (@campbutch) February 21, 2019

My boyfriend is pregnant! #transisbeautiful #12weekscan #transcrowdfund pic.twitter.com/JJ14nE86Kj
— jay jackson (@campbutch) February 21, 2019

— jay jackson (@campbutch) February 21, 2019



The couple also shared a photo of their baby.

They wrote: “Already getting their selfie game strong, just look at that profile!”



The couple also thanks everyone for supporting their fundraising campaign.

Jay wrote on Twitter: “Would like to take this chance to thank anyone who’s RT’d, contributed to or shared our fertility fundraiser.

“I honestly don’t know how we could have pulled this off without the support we got, financially and emotionally. Can’t begin to put it into words. We’re just so grateful.”

Already getting their selfie game strong, just look at that profile! pic.twitter.com/1GddzqbDmz
— jay jackson (@campbutch) February 21, 2019

— jay jackson (@campbutch) February 21, 2019



Last year, the pair said they were raising money for fertility treatment and spoke out about the challenges they faced.

“We are both trans / non-binary trans and don’t have a drop of sperm between us! However, we have found a donor from within the Brighton trans community who has amazingly and kindly offered to help with this.

“I have always wanted to become a parent, and initially believed that I would do this through adoption. However, I realised that due to my circumstances and the difficult nature of the adoption process this option is sadly not available to me.”

They said that as a queer couple they have come across “many barriers” to fertility treatment.

“Most frustratingly, the type of help that we are looking for would be available for us for free if either of us were assigned male at birth and had viable sperm!”

