Transgender Victoria’s Secret Angel?

Transgender model and reality TV personality Carmen Carrera is responding to an online petition asking Victoria’s Secret to make him its first transgender “Angel.”

A petition originally posted to change.org in 2013 calls for popular feminine apparel and lingerie company Victoria’s Secret to draft Carerra, who was born Christopher Roman, to become the first male-born model to wear the iconic wings at its famed fashion show.

The appeal adds:

By asking Carmen to be a model, Victoria’s Secret would show the entire community that they embrace trans patrons. There are so many prejudices toward the trans community, even within the LGBT community, and many trans individuals are not seen as real people. To see a transgender model walk would show that trans women are to be taken seriously and that Angels are selected because of their character and talent. As a brand, Victoria’s Secret should feel comfortable marketing towards ALL types of women.

Carerra spoke to TIME this week about the petition and elaborated on his thoughts of landing a gig of such magnitude; one that has been a home to beauties, such as Heidi Klum and Adriana Lima.

When asked by the mag about the “significance” of becoming become Victoria’s Secret first “transgender Angel,” Carrera responded, “I want to do this for the 50,000 people who signed the petition on change.org.”

Carrera also says he would like to become the first transgender VS model for his family.

“I want them to be proud of me. I want them to be like, that’s our kid, we raised that girl right there. And my community, for sure,” said Carerra.

The company has yet to respond to the petition.

Carerra, who began modeling in 2011, became the first openly transgender contestant on Logo TV’s “RuPaul’s Drag Race” in 2012, according to The New York Daily News, and underwent a gender reassignment procedure shortly thereafter.

The reality TV star acted as Meryl Streep’s hairstylist in this year’s Ricki and the Flash, and currently appears in VH1’s “Couples Therapy” with his husband, whom he married prior to the procedure.

Carrera recently spoke to Glamour Magazine about being transgender:


Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

