Transgender Model Jessica Alves Vying for Playboy Magazine Cover After Brazilian Butt Lift Surgery

Celebrity Big Brother star and transgender model Jessica Alves, a biological man who identifies as a woman, is vying to be on the cover of Playboy magazine following a Brazilian butt lift surgery.

Alves, who was recently seen strutting in a thong on a beach in Thailand, told the Daily Mail “It’s unbelievable when I look at myself in the mirror and see the woman that I’ve become. My OnlyFans images are taken by photographers who have also shot for Playboy.”



A post shared by Jessica Alves (@jessicaalvesuk)

“I never thought that when I started my gender transition process I would go this far, look as good as I do right now, and I feel so happy,” Alves added.

Alves also told Daily Mail, “Being on the cover of Playboy magazine has always being a dream to me but I always thought that it could never happen because I am trans.”

“Being on Playboy would be a validation to me as a model and a woman that everything that I have done so far has been the right decision in my life,” Alves added.



A post shared by Jessica Alves (@jessicaalvesuk)

The transgender reality star’s latest surgical procedures reportedly cost a staggering £85,000 — which comes to roughly $91,200.

Alves also underwent a full face and lip lift, had bones from the jawline and chin cut off, as well as voice feminisation surgery.

“Now at least when I pick up the phone, they’re not gonna call me Sir anymore which is a relief,” Alves told Daily Mail.

If Alves succeeds in getting onto the cover of Playboy, the reality star will be the latest biological male to enter into a world that was formerly a haven for female models.

In 2020, Valentina Sampaio, a biological man who identifies as a woman, became the first transgender model to appear in Sports Illustrated‘s annual Swimsuit Issue.

Last year, Leyna Bloom, another biological man who identifies as a woman, became the first openly trans cover model in Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue history.

You can follow Alana Mastrangelo on Facebook and Twitter at @ARmastrangelo, and on Instagram.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

