Trans in Trumpland: how to watch the powerful new documentary on transgender lives in the Trump era

Trans in Trumpland is a powerful new documentary that puts the spotlight on transgender lives in the Trump era, and everyone needs to watch it.

The four-part documentary is directed by trans man Tony Zosherafatain, who talks about his own journey to living as his true self and it’s available to watch on Topic.

The series focuses on topics including trans women being placed into male prisons, transgender students being banned from using bathrooms that align with their gender identity and the transgender military ban, speaking directly to those affected.

The powerful trailer opens with disgraced former president Donald Trump saying: “I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens”, an unfulfilled promise that many queer people can attest to.

It cuts to reporters reading news about tragic trans homicides and Trump’s administration attempting to retract the legally defined “transgender” out of existence.

Viewers are then introduced to four transgender people living in conservative regions of the country. This includes Shane, an Idaho-based army veteran of Native American descent grappling with the Trump administration’s efforts to ban transgender recruits from the military.

Another is 13-year-old Ash from North Carolina, who is living in the aftermath of the state’s 2016 “bathroom bill”, which barred trans individuals from using restrooms and other public facilities that align with their gender identity.



As well as living as trans during the Trump era, Trans in Trumpland also highlights intersectional issues including race, immigration and poverty.

Director Zosherafatain told The Daily Beast last year: “Trump’s actions have left me feeling invisible, threatened, and unsure about the future.

“So, I was like, ‘OK, I need to do this. I need to combine my trans identity, my Iranian-American identity and my fear and translate that into film to help tell our stories.'”

The series has been created by trans-owned production company TransWave Films and sees Trace Lysette, known for her roles in Hustlers and Transparent serve as executive producer alongside trans activists Miss Major Griffin-Gracy and Chella Man.

Trans in Trumpland debuted on 26 February on streaming service Topic and you can find out how to watch it below.

The four-episode series is now available to stream on platform Topic.

Viewers can sign up with a free trial and then pay $5.99 per month or $59.99 per year in the US and Canada. Meanwhile an international release is yet to be announced.

Once you’re signed up you can watch the service on all major platforms including Apple TV and Prime Video.

To find out more and to sign up go to topic.com.

This article contains affiliate links, PinkNews may earn revenue if you click through and purchase products through the links.

