Transgender woman to become the voice of Channel 4 today

A trans woman will take on the role of Channel 4’s continuity announcer today – to mark the International Transgender Day of Visibility.

The day, which takes place annually on March 31, aims to celebrate the lives of trans people around the world through a positive lens, rather than focussing purely on the downsides of being trans.

UK broadcaster Channel 4 is celebrating the day this evening by making history – handing over the role of ‘voice’ of the channel to a trans woman.

The broadcaster has asked trans woman Amy Stanning to take over the continuity duties from 5 PM this evening – which includes introducing shows, informing viewers what programmes are coming up, confirming any changes to the schedule – and in Stanning’s case, talking about being transgender.

The broadcaster confirmed: “It’s Transgender Day of Visibility, & we’re delighted to have Amy taking over continuity duties from 5pm.”

Ms Stanning, who works for Barclays Mortgages, told the Guardian: “I’m delighted that Channel 4 are celebrating the International Transgender Day of Visibility during primetime TV,” said Stanning, who works for Barclays Mortgages and is co-chair of their LGBT employee network.

“Transgender people contribute to all walks of British life and it’s time to recognise their contribution and help people be positive and open about themselves.”

Channel 4 comms officer Dan Brooke said: “We are always looking for new ways to celebrate diversity on Channel 4.

“I’m proud to bring Amy on board she’s the perfect way to mark International Transgender Day of Visibility and build on our work with the Alternative Voices campaign.”

The ‘Alternative Voices’ campaign saw a diverse range of people invited to take over the duties of continuity announcer – including a deaf actor and two people with Tourette’s syndrome.

The broadcaster is not the only place in the UK where the day will be marked on a large scale.

Lloyds Bank is also showing its trans pride, with the bank’s LGBT employees network flying the trans flag in across 35 offices and branches today.


Kimberly Bird, who is trans and Head of Group Risk Systems at Lloyds Banking Group told City AM: “More than half of the millennial generation rejects binary-male or female-gender definitions, this can only lead to greater gender acceptance, as this generation move higher up the career ladder. After all, this generation will soon become the leaders of tomorrow.”

Some of the activists who helped found the Visibilty day explained: “TDOV is a day to show your support for the trans community. 

“It aims to bring attention to the accomplishments of trans people around the globe while fighting cissexism and transphobia by spreading knowledge of the trans community. 

“Unlike Transgender Day of Remembrance, this is not a day for mourning: this is a day of empowerment and getting the recognition we deserve!”

The BBC also marked the day by sharing its story:


