Transgender RuPaul’s Drag Race star Gia Gunn shares transition journey

Transgender RuPaul’s Drag Race star Gia Gunn has opened up about her decision to undergo surgery as part of her transition.

The drag queen, from Chicago, is sharing her story to raise awareness and promote safe surgery options for the trans community.

“After many years of struggling with my gender and finally being able to accept the woman I am, I look in the mirror and don’t feel the same connection to my body as I do mentally,” Gunn said.

“I know that surgery will not necessarily make me happier but will definitely allow me to gain confidence and I do believe that will show from within.”

Gunn warned many people turn to dangerous and illegal procedures in their transition and said she wants people to be aware of the risks involved.

She has undergone three years of hormone replacement therapy and will now have breast implant surgery and will undergo a procedure to transfer fat to her hips and buttocks with Dr Leif Rogers.

Gunn recently filmed her #30DaysInTransition series in which she documented her transition, discussing health, self-care, coming out, acceptance and drag.

She also started a GoFundMe kickstarter campaign to raise the $30,000 needed for the surgery, raising more then $7,500 so far.

“Since I was five years old, I always felt like a girl,” she wrote.

“Once I discovered transitioning to the opposite gender was an option, I committed to that journey and dreamed of modifying my body to match my true self.



“I realise that surgically changing one’s physical appearance is a serious matter and not something you do just to receive more attention from others,” she added.

“After years of being told to take hormones, get silicone and ‘just be a girl’, I had to work through my feelings of confusion and prove to myself that my spirit is female and I am indeed destined to be a woman.”

Gunn said she had spent the last ten years working towards “this journey of self-discovery” and said she was “so grateful to all who have generously shared your continuous support and love” which had allowed her to reach a point of “genuine happiness.”

Gunn appeared on Season 6 of RuPaul’s Drag Race and is the sixth contestant to come out as transgender.

She came out on Trans Visibility Day in 2017 in a video she posted to her Instagram page.

“Thank you so much to each and every single one of you who have continuously supported me on my journey,” she said.

“I can only hope the rest for each and every single one of my trans brothers and sisters. Let’s be visible.”

