Trans and non-binary models walk for Prada ‘for the first time’ during Milan Fashion Week

Prada has seen a “record number” of trans and non-binary models walk in its Spring/Summer 2023 women’s collection show at Milan Fashion Week.

According to Harper’s Bazaar, several trans and non-binary models, including trans influencer Katy Grammatikopoulou (known as Katy Gramma), Taira, who uses they/them pronouns, and non-binary actor Alin Szewczyk, walked in the Prada show on Thursday (22 September).

Greek model Gramma claimed on Instagram it was the first time the fashion house had hired a trans model to walk the catwalk.

“After 109 years the most successful and famous fashion brand in Italy decided to include FOR THE FIRST TIME a transgender model in its show,” she said on Instagram.

“This girl is ME… proud of myself! Proud of my community.”

 










View this post on Instagram






















 
A post shared by Katy Gramma (@katy_gramma)


 
A post shared by Katy Gramma (@katy_gramma)


A post shared by Katy Gramma (@katy_gramma)




Gramma’s appearance in Prada’s show comes after she admitted to e-radio she had auditioned for Greece’s Next Top Model and got “four yeses”, but was cut from the show, and her audition never aired.

Speaking to the Greek outlet after her gender confirmation surgery in 2018, Gramma said: “Until I graduated high school I didn’t know that it was possible for a person to undergo this procedure and reassign their gender, I didn’t even know what trans was.

“As soon as I found out, I said it’s my only solution, my only hope.”

And Prada’s inclusive show was not the only iconic moment from this season’s fashion shows, with Anne Hathaway channelling her Devil Wears Prada character Andy Sachs by sitting next to the legend herself, Anna Wintour.

At New York Fashion Week, Hathaway sat beside Wintour – who has long been thought to be the inspiration for Meryl Streep’s fashion mogul character Miranda Priestly – wearing a throwback outfit similar to one featured in the 2006 film.

Hathaway wore a black turtleneck with a brown crocodile jacket, which fans of the film were quick to recognise as one of Andy’s post glow-up outfits.

The fashion Instagram account Diet Prada posted a side-by-side comparison shot, with the caption: “It’s giving Andy Sachs 2022!”

