Troye Sivan announces Bloom tour with transgender pop sensation Kim Petras as his opening act

Troye Sivan has announced that he will be touring North America following the release of his second studio album ‘Bloom’ at the end of the August.

Across the 27-date event, the singer-songwriter is set to perform in Austin, Texas; Miami, Florida; Toronto, Ontario; Los Angeles, California and more.

Sharing the news on Twitter on May 30, the 22-year-old revealed the complete list of venues and alerted his fans that pre-sale tickets will be available to purchase from June 5 in his app. Sivan also noted that every ticket bought will come with a physical copy of his upcoming LP.

The Bloom Tour will kick off in Irving, Texas on September 21 and conclude in Vancouver, Canada on November 8.

While the album isn’t out for a couple of months yet, Sivan has released a number of singles from it already, most notably its title track Bloom, which is a self-described “bop about bottoming” during gay sex. Other songs that fans will have heard before include ‘The Good Side’, ‘Seventeen’ and ‘My My My!’

Sivan is set to be joined on the tour by Kim Petras, a German singer-songwriter who is openly transgender while other special guests, Leland and Carlie Hanson, will join him on select dates.

But not everyone is happy about the Australian pop stars choice of lead warm-up due to Petras’ frequent collaborations with music producer Dr Luke.

Kesha, who came out as bisexual in 2013, has been in a public and legal dispute with Lukasz Sebastian Gottwald since October 2014 when she filed a civil suit against him.

In the years that followed, she claimed that Dr Luke inflicted emotional distress on her and her family while the pair worked together, and went on to say that he has “sexually, physically and verbally,” abused her since the beginning of their professional relationship.

The suit went on to claim that Dr Luke had drugged and raped Kesha, whose full name is Kesha Rose Sebert, on two separate occasions.

To the news that Petras would be Sivan’s opening act, one Twitter user replied: “Hey so…..let’s talk about kim real quick. i totally get that this probably wasn’t your decision. but she went on record in numerous different interviews supporting dr. luke and invalidating kesha’s struggles. i’m sure you don’t agree with that.”

Another said: “How about…we talk about your opening act troye. i’m sorry but not many people are happy about this”



Several people shared the same viewpoint, and tried to explain to Sivan why it would be “problematic” to professional support an artist that “openly supports a sexual abuser.” One follower added: “It’s up to you but she shouldn’t be an opening act.”

 

Other comments were much shorter, but still echoed the same sentiment about Petras’ involvement. One follower of Sivan’s wrote, “We don’t want Kim, you can keep her,” while another said: “No but u should replace kim petras with king princess ok thanks.”

Sivan has yet to respond to the criticism.

