Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey Criticized for Boasting About ‘Misgendering’ Ban

Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey was criticized this week after he boasted about Twitter’s “misgendering” ban while simultaneously claiming that users are not suspended for their political views.

1. Misgendering policy as example.2. Using ML to downrank bad actors behind interstitials3. Not too long ago, but most of our work going forward will have to be product features.4. Not sure the question. We put an entire model in place to minimize gaming of system. #Karajack

— jack (@jack) February 12, 2019

However, during a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee last September, Dorsey claimed Twitter did not take into consideration the political views of users it banned.

Conservatives believe that calling a transwoman a woman is "misgendering"

Progressives believe calling a transwoman a man is "misgendering"

Twitter enforces its policy based on the progressive ideology.

Jack confirms they have a bias and enforce rules based on their bias https://t.co/OBAwutcaAO

— Tim Pool (@Timcast) February 13, 2019

The Defend Assange Campaign, an account “run by the legal campaign to free Julian Assange,” replied, “It’s much worse than that. It engages in serious global cultural imperialism, demanding that distant and delicately balanced cultures follow its provincial cultural standards — without regard as to the effect.”

It's much worse than that. It engages in serious global cultural imperialism, demanding that distant and delicately balanced cultures follow its provincial cultural standards — without regard as to the effect.

— Defend Assange Campaign (@DefendAssange) February 13, 2019

They added that “there’s not even consensus in the U.S. about the cultural norms of ‘misgendering’ those who claim to be transgendered. To expect Pakistani’s or Poles, or in fact anyone in 192 other countries, to follow the latest SF provincial fad in speech censorship codes is imperious.”

e,g there's not even consensus in the U.S. about the cultural norms of "misgendering" those who claim to be transgendered. To expect Pakistani's or Poles, or in in fact anyone in 192 other countries, to follow the latest SF provincial fad in speech censorship codes is imperious.

— Defend Assange Campaign (@DefendAssange) February 13, 2019

One Twitter user posted, “But Jack, it’s ‘misgendering’ according to YOUR view. Many other people (including many scientists) have a different view to you, one which they can civilly and reasonably defend. So why should people’s right to exist on this platform be at the whim of your personal bias?” while another asked, “Misgendering is a mostly left wing ideology, how can twitter enforce this rule and simultaneously claim to be not biased or neutral?”

Welcome to the end of free speech.

— Todd Mitchem (@ToddMitchem) February 13, 2019

Meghan Murphy, the founder of radical feminist blog Feminist Current, was permanently suspended from Twitter in November due to Twitter’s misgendering ban, after she stated that men aren’t women.

The posts which reportedly led to Murphy’s ban were, “Women aren’t men,” and “How are transwomen not men? What is the difference between a man and a transwoman?”

Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington, or like his page at Facebook.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

