Two transgender men have given birth for the first time in Britain

Two trans men have become the first to give birth in Britain.

Scott Parker, 23, gave birth to daughter Sara on April 29.

And a month and a half later, 21-year-old Hayden Cross welcomed Trinity-Leigh into the world.

Both halted their transitions to complete the pregnancies.

Scott, from Brighton in the south of England, told the Mail on Sunday that he never thought having his own biological child would be possible.

“I did want to have my own children, and I had thought about how it might be possible with fertility treatment, but in the end I just wrote it off as something that is not going to happen,” he said.

“I thought: ‘I’m a man now – I can’t have children.”

But then, after one night of passion with a male friend in August last year, he was suddenly faced with a choice: continue his transition, or give birth.

It was a simple decision for the graphic designer, who said it was “pretty much the only opportunity I’ll have to have a child free of medical intervention.

“It was the perfect chance.”



Scott asked for his surname to be changed in the Mail on Sunday’s article.

The only bitter pill to swallow was that despite asking authorities to be listed as ‘father’ on the child’s birth certificate, Scott said he was still down as ‘mother’.

But he was still delighted.

“Now I have everything. I am the man I am meant to be and a parent.

“I want others to know they can do it too,” he added.

“It is wonderful that attitudes are changing and people like me can celebrate being a parent.

“She is beautiful and I feel so fortunate, and I think I am doing pretty well as a parent.”

And he said he was “overjoyed” for Hayden as well.

Cross revealed on ITV that he had received abuse and threats.

“I’ve had some good reactions and bad ones,” he said.

“I’ve had death threats, people threatening to beat me up.

“But a lot of ­people don’t really understand the situation. I want them to be more aware.”

The Gloucester native got pregnant through an anonymous sperm donation.

When he found out it had worked, he said he felt “mixed emotions.

“I was happy but I also knew it would be backtracking on my transition.

“It’s like I have given myself one thing, but taken away something else.

He said while pregnant that it was “a very female thing to carry a baby and it goes against everything I feel in my body.”

But, Hayden said, he “faced the prospect of not becoming the man I’m supposed to be, physically, or a dad.

“So I didn’t feel like I had any choice but to have a baby now then get back to transitioning.

“I’ve always wanted kids.”

And now, he told The Sun that his daughter was “perfect in every way.

“She is so good. I’m so lucky,” he continued.

“She’s my angel.”

