Two men cleared by police after transgender performer shot and killed in New Orleans

Police have cleared two men they wanted to speak with after a transgender performer was shot dead last month in New Orleans.

Chyna Gibson, who went by the stage name Chyna Doll Dupree, was shot several times outside of a shopping centre at 8.30pm on Saturday 25 February.

Early report misgendered Chyna and identified her by the name given to her at birth.

Neighbours reported hearing eight to 10 gunshots outside of the Bella Plaza shopping centre, and her body was found between parked cars

Police last week tweeted that they were seeking to locate two men they wanted to talk to in connection with the killing. 

Then on Friday the New Orleans Police Department tweeted that the men had been found.

The two men were cleared after questioning, police have now said.

The victim’s niece, who wished to remain anonymous, confirmed her trans status. She said Gibson was “A very loving person” and that “she didn’t do nothing to nobody.”

Another friend of the victim who was at the scene said Gibson had recently returned from California to celebrate Mardi Gras with her friends and family.

“She was just a really good person. Everyone loved her. This is unnecessary,” they said.

On facebook, friends, family and fans of the performer shared messages of love and remembrance.

“I am very sad to say that one of The Entertainers within the LGBTQ Community, Ms Chyna Gibson “Chyna Doll Dupree” was Killed tonight In New Orleans. Details are just coming in slowly. My heart goes out to her Family and close friends,” one person wrote.

Another said: “This is a tragic heart wrenching loss to our community!”

“RIP Chyna Doll Dupree. You were such an inspiration to myself and many of my closest friends. You will forever be missed. Fly on angel, fly on!” somebody else added.

Chyna Gibson was the sixth trans woman to be killed in the US this year, just 4 days after Tiara Richmond (Keke Collier) was murdered in Chicago on Tuesday.

Another trans woman of colour was stabbed to death in New Orleans two days later.

Ciara McElveen was found stabbed in the 7th ward of New Orleans by the city’s police department.

