UK Church welcomes transgender non-binary pastor

A church in Brighton has appointed a pastor who is non-binary.

The Village Metropolitan Community Church in Brighton was formed by members of the LGBT community to worship on their own terms.

The Church this week welcomed Rev Peta Evans, a non-binary pastor.

Rev. Evans said: “Returning to Brighton, I am excited to serve again in the community which first welcomed me and supported me in both my ministry journey and my gender transition.

“I would love to see the sincere passion and integrity of The Village MCC reach out even more widely to people of all ages, gender identities and walks of life.”



Rev Evans added: “Returning to Brighton, I am excited to serve again in the community which first welcomed me and supported me in both my ministry journey and my gender transition.

“I would love to see the sincere passion and integrity of The Village MCC reach out even more widely to people of all ages, gender identities and walks of life.

“I am also enthusiastic about reclaiming the Bible from those who have tried to make it a weapon against those who are different, and I’m starting a group for Trans people to do just that, ReTranslation, to look at the text for themselves without past interpretations getting in the way.

“I have a love for Celtic spirituality, which weaves together the practical and the spiritual, finding depth and delight in all things, no matter how mundane, and for creative expressions of spirituality, which I hope to share with The Village in the coming months.”

Rev Michael Hydes added: “I’m looking forward to working with Rev Peta.



“Their rootedness in Celtic Christianity and experience working in the Trans communities are just two of the many gifts they bring to their work.”

Founded in 1968, the Metropolitan Community Church movement has been a long-time supporter of LGBT inclusivity.

The church was the first to perform same-sex marriages, and has been on the forefront of the struggle toward marriage equality in the USA and other countries worldwide.

The Scottish Episcopal Church became the first Anglican denomination in the UK to carry out same-sex weddings last month.

The Church of England and Church in Wales are banned from doing so by law.

Related: Anglicans to ‘punish’ Scottish church for embracing same-sex weddings

