UK Court Rules Transgender ‘Man’ Cannot Legally be Listed as Father on Child’s Brith Certificate

A London court ruled that a female-to-male transgender man, who gave up hormone therapy in order to conceive a baby, does not have the right to be listed as a father on the child’s birth certificate.

The presiding judge in the case, Lord Burnett, said that under the Gender Recognition Act (GRA), McConnel is required to be registered as the child’s mother adding that a change to the law would have to come from parliament rather than the court.

“No-one else has that automatic parental responsibility, including the father,” he added, citing the Children Act of 1989.

In response to the ruling, McConnell said that the laws governing families and gender are “out of date”, adding that: “Any right-thinking person can see the inconsistencies in the law.”

Disappointing, conservative decision but we knew this would be a long fight. Don’t lose hope. We are applying to the Supreme Court. 

Trans parents will get legal recognition. ✊❤️

— Freddy McConnell (@freddymcconnell) April 29, 2020

“This is the reality his son will grow up knowing and today’s judgment shows how the law has not kept pace,” Spearman continued.

The decision was applauded, however, by feminist activist, Maya Forstater, who wrote: “In this case, the consistency of self-perception had to give way to the consistency that only women give birth, & people who give birth are mothers.”

“Someone who *gives birth* is not just female that day, but on the day they were born w[ith] eggs inside, when they went thru puberty, when they recognised their sexual orientation, every time they ovulated & menstruated, worried about getting pregnant, thru lactation, menopause etc,” Forstater added.

In 2019, Ms Forstater was fired from her job at the Centre for Global Development after writing online that “men cannot change into women“. Earlier this year, a judge ruled that her firing was justified as her gender-critical position “is incompatible with human dignity and fundamental rights of others”.

Conservative Lord to Boris: Stand Up to ‘Militant Transgender Fascist Lobby’ https://t.co/mx0dSrVHaf

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) February 28, 2020

Follow Kurt on Twitter at @KurtZindulka

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

