UK Government Demands UN Refers to ‘Pregnant People’, Not Women

The British government is pushing the United Nations (UN) to use the politically correct term “pregnant people” instead of “women” so the transgendered do not feel excluded.

However, an official submission by the UK on proposed amendments demands that references to “women” are erased and only “people” mentioned.

Yet, in the UK, there have only ever been two examples of transgendered people who consider themselves to be men giving birth.

Sarah Ditum, a feminist writer, told the paper: “This isn’t inclusion. This is making women unmentionable.

“Having a female body and knowing what that means for reproduction doesn’t make you ‘exclusionary’. Forcing us to decorously scrub out any reference to our sex on pain of being called bigots is an insult.”

The British push to assert transgender ideology on the international stage comes just two weeks after the Office for National Statistics revealed the sex question on the national census could be scrubbed out because it allegedly “discriminates” against the transgendered.

Also last week, Theresa May’s announced the government is to press ahead with a consultation on changes to the Gender Recognition Act, allowing people to “self-certify” their gender.

Critics have warned biological men will get the legal right to access women’s hospital wards, prisons, lavatories, changing rooms and competitive sports simply by declaring they are female.

The move, transforming transgenderism from a medical condition to a lifestyle choice, was recommended in the government’s Transgender Equalities reports, which also demanded that all teachers be given transgender training so they can spread the ideology among children.

The UN covenant is part of the International Bill of Human Rights. It undergoes periodic revision, with the latest UK submission part of the revising process.

The FCO said: “We requested that the UN human rights committee made it clear that the same right [to life for pregnant women] extends to pregnant transgender people.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

