UK Judge Rules Belief That ‘Men Cannot Change Into Women’ Is ‘Not Worthy of Respect In a Democratic Society’

In a blow to free speech protections in the United Kingdom, a judge in an employment tribunal has ruled that there is no right to question whether a transgender person is a man or a woman.

The ruling found that the Equality Act 2010 did not protect Ms Forstater’s right to express the philosophical belief that there are only two genders and therefore her firing was legal, reports The Telegraph.

In his ruling, employment Judge Taylor said that Ms Forstater’s gender-critical position “is incompatible with human dignity and fundamental rights of others”.

“If a person has transitioned from male to female and has a Gender Recognition Certificate (GRC), that person is legally a woman. That is not something [Ms Forstater] is entitled to ignore. [Ms Forstater’s] position is that even if a trans woman has a GRC, she cannot honestly describe herself as a woman. That belief is not worthy of respect in a democratic society,” Taylor said.

“Even paying due regard to the qualified right to freedom of expression, people cannot expect to be protected if their core belief involves violating others’ dignity and creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating, or offensive environment for them,” he concluded.

Mother Kicked Out of British Pub for ‘Transphobic’ T-Shirt https://t.co/a4iKmF4HeW

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 8, 2019

In response to the ruling, Ms Forstater said: “I struggle to express the shock and disbelief I feel at reading this judgment, which I think will be shared by the vast majority of people who are familiar with my case.”

“I will consider the judgment closely with my legal team to determine what can be done to challenge it,” Forstater announced.

Ms Forstater’s solicitor said that “the significance of this judgment should not be downplayed”, adding that had his client won the case, it would have protected people on both sides of the argument “to express their beliefs without fear of being discriminated against”.

Jodie Ginsberg of Index on Censorship wrote that she was “deeply worried” about the ruling and its implications “for free speech — and in particular the potential it gives for ever greater policing of an individual’s personal views and opinions by employers”.

At the time of Ms Forstater’s firing, Ginsberg said: “From what I have read of her writing, I cannot see that Maya has done anything wrong other than express an opinion that many feminists share — that there should be a public and open debate about the distinction between sex and gender.”

BBC Biased in Transgender, Immigration Debates, Says Former Host https://t.co/Sv8PUze54F

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 8, 2019

Follow Kurt on Twitter @KurtZindulka

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

