UK to Penalise Schools Which Don’t Teach Children LGBT Lessons

Secondary schools which fail to teach pupils LGBT lessons will be penalised by inspectors, it has been revealed.

An Ofsted spokesman commented: “The Department for Education’s guidance makes it clear that secondary schools must teach about LGBT issues.

“Therefore, from next summer, if secondary schools do not teach about all the protected characteristics, they will receive a judgment of ‘requires improvement’ for leadership and management.

‘World First’ – Scottish Schools to Have ‘LGBTI Equality’ Embedded in Curriculum https://t.co/FyHfmNfrf9

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 11, 2018

A report published by Ofsted this week asserted that schools would still be allowed “to teach the tenets of any faith on the protected characteristics”, such as that same-sex pairs should not marry or engage in sexual relations according to a particular religion.

“However, if they do so, they must also explain the legal rights LGBT people have under UK law, and that this and LGBT people must be respected,” the document states.

The hardline, “progressive” leftist National Secular Society, which wants to see a ban on faith schools in Britain, was furious that institutions will be able to continue to impart some religious teachings on homosexual activity.

“All pupils should be entitled to study in a welcoming and accepting school that doesn’t make them feel ashamed about who they are,” they added — without addressing the question of how their proposed education regime might make pupils from religious families feel.

40% of Parents Don’t Want LGBT Lessons for 6-Year-Olds, Pollsters Say They Must Be ‘Persuaded’ https://t.co/UmJdecyFqU

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 12, 2020

Earlier this week, Christian Concern reported on the case of a pastoral administrator who was sacked from her job at a Church of England primary school in Gloucester over Facebook posts which raised concerns over plans to make sex and relationships education (SRE) mandatory for primary school children from the age of four.

In two posts on the social media website, Kristie Higgs highlighted the introduction of transgender ideology and the promotion of homosexuality in primary schools, warning against forces wish to make the teaching of “fundamental Christian beliefs” on the topic of men, women, and marriage “forbidden”.

Drag Queen Story Time is coming to a primary school near you.https://t.co/3gMLoXy5qB

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) June 25, 2017

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

