UK: Violent Transgender Convict Sent to Women’s Prison After Brutal Knife Attack

A violent offender with a lengthy criminal record will be sent to an all-women’s prison after a court heard that “Stephen aka Stephanie” Mottershead was “undergoing gender reassignment”.

Motterhead’s attack left a neighbour requiring a three-day hospital stay with damage to the liver and kidneys as well as inflicting severe psychological trauma, resulting in Walsh having been unable to return to either work or the block of flats due to panic attacks.

Just what a women's prison needs: Stephen, a violent knifeman awaiting gender reassignment at your expense and mine. https://t.co/9uKoKP1BkS

— Andrew Martin (@devonprof) August 9, 2018

Highlighting alarm expressed by a number of senior figures including the head of Britain’s Prison Governors Association over the risks associated with sending biological males to all-women’s prisons, the newspaper noted the defendant had served previous sentences in all-male prisons for crimes including robbery and wounding.

Sentencing, Judge John Potter said Walsh could have died as a result of the attack, explaining that Mottershead’s knife “went through his liver and through to his kidney and almost hit a main artery”.

“There are other offences which do not make matters worse, but making matters significantly worse is your conviction in September 2017 of assault occasioning actual bodily harm,” he said.

UK Taxpayer to Spend £20,000 on Transgender Murderer’s Sex Change  https://t.co/TK5pNePWdO

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) June 12, 2018

Feminists have warned that female prisoners will be put at risk under government plans to “streamline and de-medicalise the process” of legally changing gender, after a study last year revealed almost half of transgender inmates in British prisons are sex offenders.

Huge sums of money ploughed into the cause have seen the transgender lobby become increasingly powerful in recent years, with killer Karen Jones — born Mark — speaking at the House of Lords earlier this year on how the country’s criminal justice system can better serve prisoners who “identify” as the opposite sex.

The LGBT activist, who was jailed after strangling a former partner and a brutal assault and attempted rape of a shopkeeper which the judge said was fueled by resentment at the victim’s having been born female, was invited to speak by “diversity” champion Lord Narendra Patel.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

