UK: Parents Gender Transition Son, 7, and Foster Son, 3, to Female

A British judge has given his approval to the foster parents of a transgender child who “transitioned” to their new gender at just three-years-old.

The parents said they had supported their seven-year-old child’s transition, going as far as to change their legal status to that of a girl, including ordering a new passport matching the child’s new identity.

When the three-year-old turned four and was sent to school, he was sent in wearing a girl’s uniform despite the school “expressly asking” the parents to stop him doing so.

It was later found that a third child fostered by the couple had also experienced “gender issues” while staying with them.

Girl Guides Expels Leaders Who Opposed Trans Shower-Sharing Policies  https://t.co/PvvDtOgQvw

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 25, 2018

However, the judge ruling on the case claimed that “The evidence from almost all sources of how the children are prospering in the care of CP and TP provides very powerful support to the contention that CP and TP are good parents”.

A supposed “gender expert”, Vickie Pasterski of Harley Street, insisted the children’s gender dysphoria did not result from “interpersonal influence or environmental interference” and was not caused by the parents.

UK: Mother Arrested in Front of Children for Calling Trans Activist a Man on Twitter https://t.co/eWJcuRMSt9

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) February 10, 2019

There is serious debate as to whether societal pressure can influence gender dysphoria and feelings of transgenderism in children.

In August 2018, Brown University in the United States published but subsequently deleted a paper suggesting that societal pressures were one explanation for “cluster effects” in which multiple groups of children in a family or friendship group all suffer similar gender identity issues together at similar times, and that social media and youtube might play a role as well.

All trace of the paper was erased following complaints from trans activists.

Kids Being ‘Groomed’ into Copycat Sex Swaps, Warns Whistleblower at School with 17 ‘Trans Pupils’ https://t.co/76ywRrEzVF

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 19, 2018

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

