Violent Transgender Male Prostitute Moved To Female Prison, Advertised ‘7 Inch Surprise’ On Sex Site

A transgendered man ‘identifying’ as a woman, who was sentenced to a term in a male jail, has been moved to an all female prison. This is despite a court stressing his “worrying” violent history and it emerging that he works as a self-described “shemale” escort who advertises a “7inch surprise”.

Hudson has no less than eight prior convictions, including offences for battery. Most recently he knocked a barman’s teeth out by head butting him on Boxing Day, for which Hudson received 12 weeks in a male prison.

However, Bristol Recorder added: “It is for the prison service and not the court to establish where a sentence should be served”.

https://twitter.com/tiaXstar/status/656805594532327424

The Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron pledged to raise the issue in the House of Commons and Conservative Ben Howlett, Hudson’s MP for Bath, promised to do “all we can in order to get Tara out of that all-male environment and into an all-female environment”. He raised the issue with the Women’s and Equalities committee and promoting an online petition.

It has now emerged that Hudson works as a “shemale” prostitute—not a make up artist as he previously claimed—and proudly boasts of a “seven inch” penis, rather than the unwanted remaining “vestige” previously described.

“I’m Tia Star a British born shemale/transexual model and escort” opens her online add, before touting, “BIG bouncy 34E boobs – leggy 5’10 – 7 inch surprise – Juicy blow job lips”.

https://twitter.com/tiaXstar/status/647310924425134080

Following Hudson’s case, it is likely more men, who make little effort to live or appear as women, will be allowed into female prisons.

Ministry of Justice guidelines have allowed some non-legally recognised women into female jails since 2011, who can “be refused location… only on security grounds.” However, the National Offender Management Service has now pledged to re-write their guidelines, following Mr Howlett’s protest regarding the Hudosn case.

Furthermore, Nicky Morgan, the Conservative Minister for Women and Equalities, said on the same day that the government is “open” to following Ireland by allowing people to “self-declare” their legal gender, regardless of how they live.

Currently, the transgendered are require to undergo surgery and sterilisation, or be diagnosed with a mental disorder and get divorced if they are married, in order to have their chosen gender legally recognised.

A Ministry of Justice report from 2014, reviewing the changes brought in in 2011, identified rising concerns that increasing numbers of male prisoners would claim to be transgendered to get what the report called an “easy” ride though the prison system.

The report also found that most institutions already had “good systems” in place for accommodating transgendered inmates, who were generally treated well.

https://twitter.com/tiaXstar/status/627121068336136192

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

