Vote for the incredible politicians, celebrities and influencers nominated in PinkNews Awards 2022

Voting is now open for PinkNews Awards 2022.

The PinkNews Awards is back with a bang this year with a live and in-person ceremony for the first time since before the COVID pandemic.

And we’re asking you, the PinkNews community, to make your voices heard and celebrate the influential and iconic people, organisations and campaigns that have worked for LGBTQ+ people and equality worldwide.

The last in-person PinkNews Awards in 2019 saw awards presented by political heavyweights like Labour Party leader Keir Starmer, foreign secretary James Cleverly, former prime minister Theresa May and speaker of the US House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi.

Since then, the ceremony has remained a virtual event due to COVID-19 restrictions and safety precautions, but it takes more than a pandemic to stop the celebrations. In 2020, the PinkNews Awards saw Labour leader Keir Starmer call for greater unity against homophobia and transphobia, while mayor of London Sadiq Khan kicked off the ceremony by thanking activists and frontline heroes for going “above and beyond” in support of LGBTQ+ minorities.

“I speak from the heart when I say that I’ll always stand in solidarity with our LGBTQ+ communities,” he said in his opening statement. “No one should have to endure hatred, discrimination, or violence simply because of who they are and who they love.”

Winners in 2020 including trailblazing trans doctor, US health secretary and four-star admiral Dr Rachel Levine, who called for greater acceptance unity to help defeat coronavirus, and the cast and crew of groundbreaking trans Netflix documentary Disclosure, accepted by Laverne Cox.

This year’s PinkNews Awards takes place on 19 October in Central London. In May, we announced our first wave of nominees across seven categories, including Community Group, Community Role Model and Local Leader of the Year.

Now, we are proud to announce the second wave of nominations across seven more categories, including awards for Campaigner of the Year, Advertising Campaign, Broadcast, Drama, Influencer of the Year, Sports Personality of the Year and Politician of the Year. And the winners of these awards will be chosen by you, the PinkNews community. To vote, simply click here.

And for more information on the PinkNews Awards 2022, click here.

The incredible Netflix story, based on the graphic novels by Alice Oseman. Teenagers Charlie and Nick discover their friendship could be something more as they navigate their feelings for one another.

This is Going to Hurt is the story of a group of junior doctors working in an obstetrics and gynaecology ward in an NHS hospital staring Ben Whishaw as comedian Adam Kay, who wrote the memoir the show is based on.

The ITV soap introduced its first transgender character, Matty Barton, in 2018. Actor Ash Palmisciano has been a fundamental part of the show ever since and we love to what? See it.

Channel 4’s Big Boys sees a closeted, shy student named Jack take his first steps towards independence at university in the wake of his father’s death. It was groundbreaking not only for its portrayal of LGBTQ+ identities but also mental health.

Netflix’s Sex Education announced its third season on 7 September, but it looks like things are about to get tricky after word of the “sex school” gets out as a new head teacher is appointed.

The trans star’s viral videos have received nearly 1 billion views on TikTok and Instagram. She was awarded the TikTok trailblazer award in 2022 for her series “Days of Girlhood”.

If you need unbelievably stylish looks from an actor who gives permanent main character energy, then Rickey Thompson is your go-to. The star has worked on shows such as Foursome and Good Mourning.

LGBTQ+ advocate Josh Helfgott uses his platform to spread important news and messages of solidarity with the LGBTQ+ community. He is particularly popular on TikTok where he shares succinct videos packed full of important information.

A trans video creator and look extraordinaire, Jayde McFarlane is a must-have on your feed, using a mix of good dress sense and iconic videos to spread messages of solidarity and to advocate for equality.

Proud trans woman and TikTok star Ilya Selyn creates some of the most iconic looks on social media. Her Instagram account has over 38.1k followers and posts content regularly.

Jewish queer influencer Matt Bernstein uses their platform to spread important news affecting the LGBTQ+ community, jokes, and other useful titbits.

An iconic 2021 campaign about meeting “voices and faces who are working hard every day to raise visibility and representation in their community” while showing off some truly on fleek brows.

A hilarious Netflix short about drag queens Monét X Change and The Vivienne trialing a Bridgerton etiquette class – and it went about as well as you might imagine.

Marc Jacobs talks to various members of the LGBTQ+ community about what makes them proud, happy and grateful while reiterating that “I am perfect as I am”.

Microsoft wants the world to know Pride is important no matter where you’re from, and it showed that with its Pride Has No Borders campaign, showcasing LGBTQ+ voices from more than 120 countries.

An initiative built by Vodka brand Absolut to help LGBTQ+ bars through financial difficulty following issues such as COVID-19 lockdowns and the cost of living crisis.

Everybody needs a good razor, and shaving brand Harry’s knows that best. It released a stylish set of rainbow razor handles during Pride for anyone and everyone to shave with style.

ITV’s powerful three-month search for patient zero of Britain’s AIDS crisis came to a dramatic conclusion with a report on the first recorded AIDS victim to die in Britain – John Eaddie.

The number one celebrity dancing competition made historic waves last year when John Whaite and Johannes Radebe become the first same-sex pair to dance on the show – to Blue Monday, no less!

There are few things more iconically camp than RuPaul’s Drag Race, and the UK spin-off is no exception – delighting fan, breaking down boundaries and serving charisma, uniqueness, nerve and talent like only Britain can.

This BBC documentary aimed to break the stigma surrounding HIV by clarifying misinformation, educating, and informing viewers on what it’s actually like to live with the virus.

At a time when LGBTQ+ voices in sports remain sparse, Tom Daley travelled to countries in the Commonwealth which are considered the most homophobic to talk to athletes fighting for their right to compete.

BET International helped shine a light on queer Black Britain in an inspiring documentary about the pivotal moments in history that changed the Black queer community.



Tom Daley is one of Britain’s most well-known sports personalities and a staunch LGBTQ+ advocate. As an ambassador athlete, he travels across the country helping other LGBTQ+ people in sport.

Jake Daniels became the UK’s first active male pro-footballer to come out publicly as gay in more than 30 years after making the announcement in May. He plays forward for Blackpool.

It’s safe to say the women’s England football team made history this year with their historic Euro’s win. The team has a number of LGBTQ+ athletes currently on its roster.

The trans cyclist who fought to participate in elite-tier cycling races in the female category has, unfortunately, been bullied by anti-trans pundits. This hasn’t stopped her fight to prove trans people belong in sports.

Swimmer Lia Thomas has used her platform to advocate for the allowance of trans people in sporting events, having been excluded herself after an effective ban on trans women in swimming competitions.

British-Jamaican professional swimmer Michael Gunning is one of the most outspoken LGBTQ+ athletes in sports today. His activism is only compounded by his down-to-earth nature and good will.

At a time of seemingly dwindling support by Conservative leaders for trans equality, MP Caroline Nokes has stuck with the community, fighting for pro-trans policies and laws.

Islington South Labour MP Emily Thornberry always has the back of LGBTQ+ community members. The shadow attorney general has stood with LGBTQ+ activists on multiple occasions.

Gay SNP MP John Nicolson knows that, especially during these unprecedented times, trans solidarity is incredibly important. He has used his position to lambast anti-trans pundits while advocating for LGBTQ+ equality.

As minister for equalities from September 2021 to July 2022, Mike Freer advocated for a number of pro-trans actions by the government, including a conversion therapy ban for trans people.

One of the first waves of LGBTQ+ activism, the Gay Liberation Front prides itself on boots-to-the-ground activism, marches, and giving a voice to the voiceless. In 2022, the group commemorated the 50th anniversary of the UK’s first-ever Pride march.

As an Afghan-American queer activist and novelist, Nemat Sadat has done important work in helping members of the LGBTQ+ community in Afghanistan escape the Taliban after it seized power in 2021.

Ukrainian-born LGBTQ+ rights activists Lenny Emson and Oksana Solonska have set the bar for LGBTQ+ activism at a time when queer Ukrainians need it the most.

A prominent British evangelical LGBTQ+ activist who has campaigned to safeguard queer people from abuse and for the advocacy of trans people at a time when the Conservative movement has been less than accepting.

The British chef and queer author is known for campaigning on poverty issues, hunger relief and LGBTQ+ rights. Monroe has worked particularly closely with issues involving the cost of living crisis over the past year.

A trans British model and activist who’s become one of the most influential names in the “gender revolution”, according to British Vogue. Her 2018 Channel 4 documentary What Makes a Woman received critical acclaim.

The gender non-conforming American writer, performance artist and media personality uses their platform to spread messages of trans solidarity to the world.

Click here to vote in the PinkNews Awards 2022 and follow PinkNews on Instagram, Twitter and TikTok for more updates.

