WATCH Protesters Confront Bruce Jenner: ‘You’re an Insult to Trans People!’

Bruce Jenner was told by protestors in Chicago on Thursday that he is an “insult to trans people.”

“You are an insult to trans people,” one protestor can be heard yelling at Jenner on the video below. “You are an insult to women…You have no right to represent us!”



A Facebook page called “#IAintCait: Protest Caitlyn Jenner’s ‘Miss Representation’ Luncheon” was created by protestors to explain the issues they had with Jenner speaking on behalf of the transgender community at the event.

The organizers wrote, via GossipCop:

Who, you may ask, did they select to speak on the issues facing trans people and especially trans women in our city? Caitlyn Jenner. Caitlyn Jenner, who lives in a mansion and has a net worth of millions of dollars, while the average trans person has a 41 percent chance of experiencing homelessness [sic] and a nearly 50 percent chance of living off less than $10K per year. Caitlyn Jenner, who said in a segment on her hit new reality TV series I Am Cait, regarding people who rely on social services to get by: ‘You don’t want people to get totally dependent on it. That’s when they get into trouble. Why should I work? You know, I’ve got a few bucks, I’ve got my room paid for.’

Jenner was criticized by liberal transgender women in August for being too conservative in his political views.

In an episode of his reality TV docu-series “I Am Cait,” Jenner was heard discussing welfare programs while trying to address issues within the transgender community.

“Don’t a lot of times they can make more not working with social programs than they actually can with an entry-level job,” he said at the time.

“You don’t want people to get totally dependent on it. That’s when they get in trouble – ‘Why should I work? I got a few bucks, I got my room paid for,'” he added.

Jenner has been taking criticism from transgender activists for the remarks since.

Some critics claim the reality TV star has lived “in the bubble” far too long to understand the living conditions of the less fortunate.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

