WATCH: Larry Wilmore takes on Milo Yiannopoulos for his attack on transgender people

Comedian Larry Wilmore has gone head to head with Breitbart editor and internet troll Milo Yiannopoulos over the alt-right figure head’s treatment of transgender people.

Appearing on a panel for Overtime with Bill Maher, Wilmore questioned Yiannopoulos over his attack on the trans community after he misgendered the college student that he attacked at one of his talks while talking about the event.



“He had already left the university. And I make no apologies for protecting women and children from men who are confused about their sexual identity.” Yiannopoulos said. 

“I did it on purpose. I misgendered this person. I think women and girls should be protected from having men who are confused about their sexual identities from their bathrooms.”

Maher coined Yiannopoulos’ statement “not unreasonable” before Wilmore stood to defend trans people. 

“I just think it’s sad, because the same arguments that were used against gay people, treating them like aliens who wanted to f*ck anything that moved and that’s why we should avoid them at all costs, are being used.
“There are a lot of same issues that you have to deal with when you’re marginalised,” Wilmore said.

Yiannoupoulos further defended his comments, claiming that transgender people are “disproportionately involved in those kinds of crimes” and mocked the motion that trans people suffer discrimination.

Wilmore hit back: “You can always find an extreme person that becomes the object of your attack to assign that to everybody. So if you say, well that person is ‘weird’ or they want to commit sexual assault, then people think all transgender people want to do is commit sexual assault.” 

Malcolm Nance, a counterterrorism intelligence officer also appeared on the panel and questioned why Yiannopoulos seemed so confused about society response to gender and sexual identity. 

The comment annoyed the troll, who then called the rest of the panel “stupid.” 

Wilmore retaliated: “You can go f*ck yourself, alright. If you’re argument is that these people are stupid then you aren’t listening because this man could walk you in circles.” 

You can watch the spat here:



