Watch: House GOP, Democrats, Debate Transgender Bill

GOP Senators will have to debate the Democrats’ pro-transgender Equality Act now that the far-reaching bill has passed in the House.

Democrats fobbed off numerous and detailed Republican arguments against the transgender bill by repeating broad appeals, narrow insults, and sharp threats. The Democrats’ pressure was backed up by speeches from House Majority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA).

“We are winning. We will continuing winning. Our will is unbreakable. Our love is so much stronger than your sad, pathetic hate,” said Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-MI).

The many GOP advocates included Representatives Tom McClintock (R-CA), Andy Biggs (R-AZ), and Vicky Hartzler (R-MO).

Democrats ignored the GOP’s points and denied all likely harms and risks. Two Democrats cited their personal connections to their adult children who want to live as members of the other sex.

Several Democrats gave heartfelt speeches about gay rights — but Pelosi announced that she would never agree to pass a gay rights bill unless it also included the transgender ideology.

No Democrats noted that the gay priorities are being made subordinate to transgender demands.

Editors in the establishment media largely distorted or ignored the GOP’s many arguments in favor of preserving government recognition of the two complementary sexes, even as they also posted many articles cheerleading for the transgender ideology.

Still, the GOP members used the House debate to highlight the bill’s humiliating demand that American women subordinate their knowledge of biology and civics to the intimidating demands of men who insist on being described as members of the other sex.

The House GOP members also did not emphasize the risk to childrens’ health created by the act’s endorsement of the transgender ideology. However, Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) raised the health risks in a Senate hearing:

Polls show the Democrats’ radical transgender ideology is unpopular among swing voters, especially because of the threat to female sports.

Gay writer Andrew Sullivan says that the Transgender ideology undermines the idea of gay & lesbian rights. (This matches conservatives' view that transgenderism also attacks heterosexuality & health). So what is more important for progressives? LGB or T? https://t.co/BHDCyiwNLl

— Neil Munro (@NeilMunroDC) November 18, 2019

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

