WATCH: Lia Thomas Says Trans Athletes ‘Not a Threat’ to Women’s Sports

Striking back at critics who say transgender women athletes enjoy an unfair advantage in sports, controversial transgender UPenn swimmer Lia Thomas said that trans women transition for happiness, not sports.

In an interview with Good Morning America on Tuesday, Thomas waived off the advantages a male body has over a female’s in sports.

“I’m not a medical expert, but there’s a lot of variation among [cisgender] female athletes,” Thomas said. “There’s just women who are very tall and very muscular and have more testosterone than another [cisgender] woman. And should that then also disqualify them?”

“The biggest misconception, I think, is the reason I transitioned,” Thomas told GMA. “People will say, ‘Oh, she just transitioned so she would have an advantage, so she could win.’ I transitioned to be happy, to be true to myself.”

EXCLUSIVE: "Trans people don't transition for athletics. We transition to be happy and authentic and our true selves."

Transgender swimmer Lia Thomas speaks out to @JujuChangABC about backlash and future plans to compete. https://t.co/UFQOgMNBLj pic.twitter.com/FJcmyEChi9

— Good Morning America (@GMA) May 31, 2022

Thomas also claimed that transgender women competing against natural-born women is no threat to women’s sports.



Riley Gaines stands next to Lia Thomas at the NCAA Championships (Brett Davis/USA Today Sports)

“Trans people don’t transition for athletics. We transition to be happy and authentic and our true selves. Transitioning to get an advantage is not something that ever factors into our decision,” Thomas exclaimed.

“It’s no different than a cis (cisgender) woman taking a spot on a travel team or a scholarship. It’s a part of athletics, where people are competing against one each other. It’s not taking away opportunities from cis women really,” Thomas added. “Trans women are women, so it’s still a woman who is getting that scholarship or that opportunity.”

Thomas was defiant in the face of critics. Though he has graduated from UPenn, Thomas insisted that the whole experience was worth it.

“I’ve been able to do the sport that I love as my authentic self,” Thomas concluded.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Facebook at: facebook.com/Warner.Todd.Huston, or Truth Social @WarnerToddHuston

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

