Win tickets for groundbreaking transgender play Rotterdam

After its triumphant win at the 2017 Olivier Awards, the critically acclaimed comedy Rotterdam returns to London for a strictly limited engagement at The Arts Theatre, London. Don’t miss your chance to win tickets to this hilarious and touching new comedy about gender, sexuality and being a long way from home.

“Alice wants to come out as a lesbian. Her girlfriend Fiona wants to start living as a man. It’s New Year in Rotterdam, and Alice has finally plucked up the courage to email her parents and tell them she’s gay.

“But before she can hit send, Fiona reveals that he has always identified as male and now wants to start living as a man named Adrian. Now, as Adrian confronts the reality of his transition, Alice faces a question she never thought she’d ask… does this mean she’s straight?”



Olivier Award-winning show Rotterdam is returning to London, following a highly successful run at Trafalgar Studios and an Off Broadway run in New York.

The bittersweet comedy about gender, sexuality and being a long way from home comes from acclaimed writer Jon Brittain, co-creator of Margaret Thatcher Queen of Soho, and writer of What Would Spock Do? and A Super Happy Story (About Feeling Super Sad).

Anna Martine Freeman (The Nether), Alice McCarthy (Boris: World King), Ed Eales-White (Strap In – It’s Clever Peter) and Ellie Morris (Peter Pan Goes Wrong) are reprising their roles for the new production.

To celebrate the show’s return to London, the Arts Theatre is giving PinkNews readers a chance to win two tickets to see the show themselves.

Just fill out the form below, and you could be in with a chance of winning.

PinkNews readers can also get a 50% discount for tickets via the Arts Theatre website, using the promo code PINK (valid until June 21). Band A tickets are £25 (usually £50.50), and Band B are £15 (usually £40.50). Offer excludes June 23-28.Loading…

Creator Jon Brittain explained he was inspired to write Rotterdam after a couple of his friends transitioned.

The playwright researched trans issues widely for the show, speaking to members of the trans community and working with groups including Trans Media Watch Gendered Intelligence.

Director Donnacadh O’Briain said: “Rotterdam made me laugh-out-loud and well up with tears from the first time I picked it out of a pile of scripts, and it continues to do that every time I see it.”

You can buy tickets via the Arts Theatre website. Use the offer code PINK to get a discount.

Competition Terms: Two tickets, valid for any performance of Rotterdam at the Arts Theatre (21 June – 15 July 2017, excluding 22nd June). Promoters will try to accommodate winners’ first choice of date, but please be aware an alternative may be offered if first choice is not available. Competition closes on June 19, and winners will be notified via the e-mail address supplied. Tickets are strictly non-transferable or exchangeable for cash or any other prize.

