Wisconsin School District Drops ‘Mispronouning’ Lawsuit Against Middle Schoolers

Wisconsin’s Kiel Area School District has dropped a Title IX sexual harassment lawsuit it filed against middle school children for “mispronouning” another student.

“Over the last several weeks, our school district and community have been greatly impacted by media attention related to a complaint involving harassment,” a letter from the district board of education states.

As Breitbart News reported, the three eighth-grade boys were sued under Title IX for using “incorrect pronouns” by their school district.

“The District’s position appears to be that once a student informs others of alternate, preferred pronouns, any subsequent ‘mispronouning’ automatically constitutes punishable sexual harassment under Title IX,” a press release from WILL stated at the time, explaining that the boys were simply using the “biologically correct” pronouns.

According to a press release from WILL regarding the district’s recanting of the lawsuit, the defense attorneys sent a June 2 follow-up letter to the district calling for the dismissal of the Title IX suit.

“While we are glad that the District has ended its investigation, this dispute should have never been escalated to this point,” Rose Rabidoux, a parent of one of the eighth-graders facing the lawsuit, said. “We expect the Kiel Area School District to ensure that this Title IX complaint is not on my son’s record. We are thankful to our friends, family, and community for their support.”

“We are pleased that the Kiel Area School District has finally ended its misguided Title IX investigation,” WILL deputy counsel Luke Berg said in a press release. “While the District’s statement attempts to reframe the investigation, it was always primarily about ‘mispronouning.’ The District may not be willing to admit it publicly, but it has recognized that it has no legal basis to demand that our clients refrain from ‘mispronouning’ other students.”

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

