Woke Labour Leader Starmer Insists ‘Trans Women Are Women’ Amid Rowling Spat

Sir Keir Starmer, the Labour Party leader, declared on Friday that he is a staunch believer that “trans women are women”.

“Well, I have to say that there are different definitions legally around what a woman actually is. I mean you look at the definition within the Equality Act and I think it just says someone who is adult and female but doesn’t say how you define either of those things. I mean obviously, that’s when you’ve got the biological definition, legal definition, all kinds of things” Dodds said during a national radio interview on Tuesday.

Dodds succumbing to the radical transgender lobby prompted Harry Potter author JK Rowling to tweet that Dodds needed “a dictionary and a backbone”, adding shortly afterwards that “apparently, under a Labour government, today [International Women’s Day] will become We Who Must Not Be Named Day” — a tongue in cheek reference to Lord Voldermort, the villain in the Harry Potter series, who is often referred to as ‘He Who Must Not Be Named’ by other characters.

JK Rowling Accuses Left of Branding Women’s Day as ‘We Who Must Not Be Named Day’ https://t.co/wc576F9fY7

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) March 9, 2022

The Labour leader went on to suggest that he believes the Gender Recognition Act should be “reformed” to allow for individuals to self-declare their gender identity rather than be officially diagnosed by medical staff — in line with Scottish National Party (SNP) plans for Scotland, where they head a devolved government, through their upcoming Gender Recognition Reform Bill.

Scottish authorities have also implemented mechanisms by which criminals can self-identify after being incarcerated, for which they received widespread criticism after it was revealed this allows biologically male rapists with intact penises to be sent to a women’s prison.

Currently, the Gender Recognition Act of 2004, brought in by former Labour prime minister Sir Tony Blair, requires that those suffering from the former mental health condition gender dysphoria must have identified and lived as their new gender for at least two years before they can legally transition.

Struggling for Relevance, Woke UK Labour Leader Demands Female James Bond https://t.co/pS35zdBTxU

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 30, 2021

Sir Keir has claimed he believes in “safe spaces for women”, but as he believes ‘trans women are women’ it seems unlikely that this extends to safe spaces for biological women.

The former head of the Crown Prosecution Service has previously reprimanded Labour’s MP for Canterbury, Rosie Duffield, for tweeting, “I’m a ‘transphobe’ for knowing that only women have a cervix…?!”

Sir Keir did not go as far as to say that Duffield was transphobic, but he did insist that what she said was “something that shouldn’t be said”, and “not right”, claiming that transgender people are “amongst the most marginalised and abused communities”.

Establishment Back Tracking Begins: Labour Leader Who Took a Knee Claims He Doesn’t Support BLM https://t.co/R3hrPZeAZf

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) June 30, 2020

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

