Zaya Wade drops breathtaking Tiffany & Co advert and fans are in love: ‘Stunning beyond words’

Zaya Wade has followed in the footsteps of Beyoncé by starring in a Tiffany & Co campaign.

At just 15, Zaya Wade has already made a name for herself as activist and advocate for trans rights – even Michelle Obama is a fan.

Now, the teenager can add model to her list of accomplishments.

In newly-released images Zaya, the daughter of former NBA basketball star Dwayne Wayde, poses with a gold Tiffany bracelet.

 










View this post on Instagram






















 
A post shared by Zaya Wade (@zayawade)


 
A post shared by Zaya Wade (@zayawade)


A post shared by Zaya Wade (@zayawade)




But it wasn’t the jewellery that fans were going wild for.

Zaya Wade, the daughter of basketball star Dwyane Wade, for @TiffanyAndCo pic.twitter.com/Nktt0Z68ek
— Dionne Grant (@DionneGrant) September 18, 2022

— Dionne Grant (@DionneGrant) September 18, 2022



 

“So pretty didn’t even notice the bracelet, sorry Tiffany”, one person tweeted, with another replying: “You know you are gorgeous when you make a Tiffany & Co bracelet look like a rubber band you put on your wrist at work then forgot about!”

A beauty!!!
— Kelechi (@kelechnekoff) September 18, 2022

— Kelechi (@kelechnekoff) September 18, 2022



Breathtaking BEAUTY!!!!
— AMO (@BridgetteAmofah) September 18, 2022

— AMO (@BridgetteAmofah) September 18, 2022



Twitter users were blown away by Zaya’s beauty, and predicted a long and successful modelling career for the 15-year-old.

“Listen. Zaya is stunning beyond words, you know? I’m expecting runway, after runway, after runway, after runway — THIS is literally a top model. Beautiful,” one person said.

And another added: “I see she gonna be one of these elite girlies and I honestly fully support that.”

I see she gonna be one of these elite girlies and I honestly fully support that. https://t.co/fx2UkQgZvv
— Shut Down (@kat_blaque) September 19, 2022

— Shut Down (@kat_blaque) September 19, 2022



 

Zaya Wade has previously spoken out about how she deals with trolls, with a grace and wisdom beyond her years.

Luckily, her father Dwayne Wayde and step-mother Gabrielle Union are incredibly supportive, even making a statement at the Met Gala on how to support trans children.

Last month, Dwayne Wade filed the paperwork to officially update Zaya’s legal name and gender.

He filed the paperwork on behalf of his daughter, as she is unable to do so as a minor.

According to The Blast, the documents were filed in a Los Angeles County Court and requested that her name formally be changed to Zaya Malachi Airamis Wade.

