‘Birthing Person’: Midwife Students Taught How to Deliver Babies Through ‘Male Genitalia’

A British university has reportedly instructed students studying to become midwives on how to deliver babies from “birthing persons” with a penis.

The teaching resource, which were obtained from students by the feminist website Reduxx, stated: “It is important to note that while most times the birthing person will have female genitalia, you may be caring for a pregnant or birthing person who is transitioning from male to female and may still have external male genitalia.”

The manual went on to instruct the midwifery students that they should be familiar with how to use catheters for “both female and male anatomy”. It added that because, they claimed, both men and women can give birth, it would be referring to those in labour as a “birthing person”.

It also inserted a section explaining that female to male transgender patients may have to give birth through an artificially constructed “penis”.

Lancet Editor Apologises for Cover Calling Women ‘Bodies With Vaginas’ https://t.co/gW0lwBxA3W

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 28, 2021

The guide was criticised by Elaine Miller of the Chartered Society for Physiotherapy, who noted that the instructions were biologically incoherent and warned of the potential negative side effects for transgender people attempting to give birth.

“It is not possible for a male person to get pregnant,” Miller said. “A [female] with a gender difference can become pregnant but will not have male genitalia.”

Don’t Say ‘Mothers’ – It Offends Transgender People, Doctors Told https://t.co/LwsC0CYBuW pic.twitter.com/fLepIZVlgh

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 29, 2017

Emeritus Professor in Obstetrics and Women’s Health at King’s College London, Dr Susan Bewley also took aim at the instructions, noting that many women who undergo transition surgery also undergo an hysterectomy and therefore physically can not give birth.

“These materials are the opposite of the high-quality training that patients need from midwives and doctors. The project may have arisen from compassion and enthusiasm, but it is worrying that the writers don’t seem to know, care about, or check facts.”

Meanwhile, midwives across the country have been told by a government-sponsored report from the LGBT Foundation that they should refrain from using gendered language, including phrases such as “breastfeeding” and “vaginal birth” to make transgender people feel more comfortable, LBC reported.

“Traditional terminology may induce dysphoria or discomfort for trans and non-binary parents,” the Conservative government sponsored report stated.

Motherhood Councillors Forced to Assist Transgenders on Their ‘Chestfeeding Journey’ https://t.co/cJn47fV4G0

— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 13, 2021

Follow Kurt Zindulka on Twitter here @KurtZindulka

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

