‘So Easy I was Cruising’: Trans U. Penn Swimmer Bragged About Beating Female Opponents

Transgender University of Pennsylvania swim team member Lia Thomas taunted natural-born female opponents saying that beating them was “so easy I was cruising,” according to one swimming team member.

“That was so easy, I was cruising,” the woman said that Thomas boasted after a recent win. Thomas also reportedly said, “At least I’m still No. 1 in the country,” in front of teammates.

The U Penn swimmer also said that coaches and university flaks told the girls that they are “strongly advised” not to talk about Thomas outside the school.

The women are in second place after day one of the Zippy Invitational.

Lia Thomas set a pool and meet record in the 500 free!

὏ https://t.co/8ECO8Dts6b#FightOnPenn pic.twitter.com/4V4wjhnkOf

— Penn Swimming & Diving (@PennSwimDive) December 4, 2021

“They feel so discouraged because no matter how much work they put in it, they’re going to lose,” the source said of the women on the team.

“Usually, they can get behind the blocks and know they out-trained all their competitors and they’re going to win and give it all they’ve got,” she said, adding, “Now they’re having to go behind the blocks knowing no matter what, they do not have the chance to win. I think that it’s really getting to everyone.”

It has additionally been reported that even crowds at the meets are less than thrilled at Thomas’ constant records crushing wins and often remain silent when Thomas once again comes out the winner.

“Well, obviously, she’s No. 1 in the country because she’s at a clear physical advantage after having gone through male puberty and getting to train with testosterone for years,” OutKick’s source said of Thomas’ new records. “Of course, you’re No. 1 in the country when you’re beating a bunch of females. That’s not something to brag about.”

Will “Lia” Thomas pic.twitter.com/eiTTHuQ6IX

— Large Marge (@largemarge777) November 30, 2021

Thomas also recently spoke out about the swirling controversy and defended the mounting winning record.

In an interview last week with SwimSwam, Thomas praised the changes coming over the world of sports – such as the rules changes by the International Olympics Committee- allowing men claiming to be transgender women to enter into the regular women’s categories.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Facebook at: facebook.com/Warner.Todd.Huston.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

