‘Trans Disney’ Artist Depicts Classic Characters as Transgender

A cartoonist from New York has set up an Instagram account dedicated to depicting classic Disney characters as transgender.

Some of the characters transitioned by the artist include Elsa and Anna from Frozen, Aladdin from Aladdin, and Boo from Monsters Inc. 

https://www.instagram.com/p/BZyqHB7hHjv/

According to HuffPost, the artist is a transgender art director living in New York City who grew up watching Disney films, and was influenced by “the narrow way they portray love and define gender.”

“Some of the patterns and plot elements can be read as a metaphor for the LGBTQ community,” the artist told HuffPost. “For example, I’m thinking of how the Beast could be a metaphor of an individual who is keeping his real sexuality in the closet, and sees himself as a ‘monster.’ I also came across an article debating whether Elsa’s ‘disability’ and desire for loneliness can be related to her secret homosexuality.”

All the transitions are accompanied by descriptions from the artist of the characters gender dysphoria.

This is one of my favorite moments of Aladdin, when he pretends to be someone he’s not to impress Jasmine,” the author writes.” [I’d] like to tweak this moment and show Aladdin being herself in the body she was supposed to be born in. No need to pretend, no need to lie. Just herself and the love of her life.

https://www.instagram.com/p/BYloEzJB-yr/

“Disney movies are about freedom & transformation,” the account’s bio reads. “What if they could tell a transgender story?

Although a Disney character has never appeared to be transgender, Finding Dory star Ellen DeGeneres claimed that the film would feature a transgender stingray who transitions to become “Sting-Rhonda,” although this character never appeared.

Meanwhile, a male ‘Disney addict’ named Richard Schaefer has spent years posting pictures of himself dressed up as his favorite female Disney characters to social media, including  Snow White, Cinderella, and Sleeping Beauty.

 

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

